Page 1firstDEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION & TRAINING DA NANG CityTHAI PHEN HIGH SCHOOLREVIEW TOPICHISTORY GRADE 12Page 22LESSON 1. THE CONFIGURATION OF THE NEW WORLD ORDERAFTER World War II (1945 – 1949)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. IANTA CONFERENCE (February 1945) AND AGREEMENTS OF THE THREE COUNTRIES1. Circumstances: 4 → 11- 0 2 -1945, the heads of the three great powers: America, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union metinternational conference in Ianta (USSR) to agree on the settlement of the following pressing issueswar and establish a new world order.2. Content:- Completely destroy German fascism and Japanese militarism.- Establishing the United Nations organization to maintain world peace and security.- Divide the sphere of influence of the victorious powers in Europe and Asia.3. Meaning:The decisions of the Ianta Conference and the subsequent agreements of the three great powers werebecame the framework of a new world order called the "Ianta bipolar order".II. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UN1. Circumstances- April 25, June 26, 1945, delegates from 50 countries met in San Francisco (USA) to ratify the Constitution.the establishment of the United Nations.- October 24, 1945, the Charter officially took effect.2. Operational purpose: To maintain world peace and security, developfriendly relations and cooperation among countries on the basis of respect for the principles of equality and rightsself-determination of nations.3. Working principle- Sovereign equality among nations and the right to self-determination of peoples.- Respect the territorial integrity and political independence of all countries.- Non-interference in the internal affairs of any country.- Settlement of international disputes by peaceful means.- Peaceful coexistence and consensus among the five great countries: the Soviet Union (Russia), the United States, Great Britain, Franceand China.4. Organizational structure- General Assembly .- Security Council: Responsible for world peace and securityfive major countries (UK, France, USA, USSR, China).- Secretariat .- In addition, the United Nations has many other specialized organizations, headquartered in New York.- United Nations organizations in Vietnam: WHO, FAO, IMF, ILO, ICAO, UNESCO...5. Roles- Keeping international peace and security.Page 33- Promote peaceful settlement of international disputes.- To develop friendly relations of economic and cultural cooperation among member countries.III – THE CREATION OF TWO OVERSEAS SOCIAL SYSTEMS(hips - reduce load)LESSON 2. Soviet Union AND East European COUNTRIES (1945 – 1991).RUSSIA FEDERATION (1991 – 2000)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. Soviet Union AND Eastern European COUNTRIES FROM 1945 TO BETWEEN 701. Soviet Uniona. Economic recovery* Circumstances: After the war against fascism, the Soviet Union suffered heavy losses:27 million people died, 1,710 cities were destroyed.* Achievement- Complete the 5-year economic recovery plan (1946 - 1950) within 4 years and 3 months.- By 1950, industrial output had increased by 73%, compared with pre-war levels. Farmindustry reached pre-war levels.- In 1949, successfully built an atomic bomb, breaking the US monopoly on atomic weapons.b. The Soviet Union continued to build socialism (from 1950 to the first half of the 70s)- Industry: The Soviet Union became the second largest industrial power in the world after the United States.pioneer in space industry, nuclear power industry.- Agriculture: The production of agricultural products in the 1960s increased by an average annual rate of 16%.- Science and technology: In 1957, the Soviet Union was the first country to successfully launch a nuclear satellitecreation of the earth; In 1961, the spaceship Gagarin was launched to fly around the earth.- Society: The social structure changed, the proportion of workers accounted for more than 55% of the employeesThe education level of the people is improved.- Politics: Relatively stable- Foreign affairs: Implement the policy of protecting peace and supporting the national liberation movementand help socialist countries.Meaning: Achievements have strengthened and strengthened the power and position ofSoviet Union in the international arena; To support the world revolutionary movement.2. Eastern European countriesa. The Birth of People's Democratic States in Eastern Europe- In the years 1944 - 1945, the People's Democratic Republics of Eastern Europe were established in turn.- During the years 1945 - 1949, the People's Democratic Republics of Eastern Europe completed the reform and consolidation of political powerDCND rights.b. The construction of socialism in Eastern European countries- Circumstances: Many difficulties and challenges- Achievements: Becoming industrial-agricultural countries.3. Cooperation between socialist countries in Europea, Economic relations - science and technology- Formation: In January 1949, the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries established the Similar CouncilPage 55economic support (SEV).- Objective: to strengthen cooperation among socialist countries, promote economic and technical progresstechnique, narrowing the gap between member countries.- Role: After more than 20 years of operation, SEV has achieved many achievements in helpingmember countries, promoting economic and technical progress,...b, Political-military relations- Formation: May 1955, Soviet Union and Eastern European countries established the Treaty OrganizationWarsaw.- Objective: To establish a political and military defense alliance between the socialist countries.- Role: contributing to maintaining peace and security in Europe and the world, creating a balance of "two poles".II. USSR AND East European COUNTRIES FROM THE BETWEEN 70 TO 1991Guide students to read more SG - reduce load)1. The crisis of the socialist regime in the Soviet Union2. The crisis of the socialist regime in Eastern European countries3. Causes of disintegration of the socialist regime in the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries.III. RUSSIA FROM 1991 TO 2000The Russian Federation is the successor state to the Soviet Union's legal status in international relations.- Economic: From 1990 to 1995, the average annual growth of GDP was negative.Since 1996, there have been signs of recovery: In 1997, the growth rate was 0.5%; year 2000up to 9%.- Politically: In December 1993, the Constitution of the Russian Federation was promulgated, regulating the constitution of the Russian FederationFederal Presidency. Regarding domestic affairs, the state of disputes between parties and ethnic conflictsethnic groups, notably the secessionist movement in Czechoslovakia.- Regarding foreign affairs: On the one hand, leaning towards the West, on the other hand, restoring and developing relationsrelations with Asia (China, India, ASEAN countries...)- Since 2000, V. Putin became President, Russia has had many positive changes in terms of economyeconomic, political foreign affairs, international status is enhanced.- However, Russia still has to deal with many terrorist attacks by separatistscause, maintaining the position of power in Eurasia.LESSON 3. Northeast Asian COUNTRIESA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE Northeast Asia region- It is the largest and most populous region in the world. Before the second world war, all wereenslaved colonists (except Japan).- Since 1945, there have been many changes:+ October 1949, the People's Republic of China was born. In the late 90s,Hong Kong and Macau also returned to China.+ In 1948, the Korean peninsula was divided into two regions along the 38th parallel: KoreaThe Republic of Korea in the South and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the North.+ After the Korean War (1950 - 1953), the 38th parallel was the boundary between the two states.+ Since 2000, signed a harmony agreement between the two countries.- From the second half of the twentieth century, Northeast Asia achieved rapid economic growth,People's lives have been significantly improved. China alone has a fast and high growth economybest of the world.II . CHINA1. The founding of the People's Republic of China and achievements in the first 10 years of constructionbuilding a new regime (1949 - 1959)a. The Founding of the People's Republic of China- After the war against Japan, from 1946 to 1949, there was a civil war between the Kuomintang and the Kuomintangand the Communist Party. At the end of 1949, the civil war ended and the entire mainland of China was liberated.- On October 1, 1949, the People's Republic of China was proclaimed.- Meaning: ending more than 100 years of slavery and imperial domination, eradicating remnants of feudalismideas, ushering in the era of independence and freedom, moving towards socialism. Has had a profound effect onworld national liberation movement.b. Achievements in the first 10 years of building a new regime (1949 - 1959)- Mission: successfully implement the economic recovery (1950 - 1952) and the 5 . planthe first year (1953 - 1957).- Achievements: After 10 years, the face of the country has changed markedly (246 works have been completed).construction, industrial output increased by 140%, agriculture by 25%,...), vh - gd hadgreat progress, the life of the ND river has been improved.- Regarding foreign affairs: China implements an active policy aimed at consolidating peace and promoting peacepromote the world revolutionary movement.2. China's unstable years (1959-1978)(hips - Reduce load)3. Reform – opening up (since 1978)* The way of reform - opening the door- In December 1978, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China outlined a reform line.Page 88- Content: Building socialism with Chinese characteristics: Economic development is the taskcentral service, conducting reform and opening up; Transition to a socialist market economyMeaning, Turn China into a rich, strong, democratic and civilized country.* Achievement:- By 1998, China's economy had made rapid progress, achieving the highest growth rateIn the world, GDP increased by 8% annually.- In 2000, GDP reached 1,080 billion USD, per capita income increased, people's living standard increasedpeople improved markedly. In 2010, China's GDP surpassed Japan to become a major economy2nd in the world after the US.- China's science - technology, culture and education have achieved quite high achievements (years1964, successful test of the atomic bomb; In 2003, the ship "Shenzhou 5" was successfully launched intospace).- Foreign Affair:+ Normalize diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union, Mongolia, Vietnam...+ Friendly relations and cooperation with countries around the world, contributing to the settlement of disputesinternational dispute.+ China's role and position has increased in the international arena.LESSON 4. SEA COUNTRIES AND INDIAA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI . Southeast Asian COUNTRIES1. The establishment of independent countries after the second world wara. General information about the process of fighting for independence- In August 1945, the people of many Southeast Asian countries stood up to seize power and declaredIndependence: Vietnam, Laos, Indonesia.- After that, the Western colonialists returned to invade, the Southeast Asian people continued to struggle stronglyand gained independence in turn: Philippines (July 1946), Indonesia (1949), Burma (1948), Malaysia(1957), Singapore (1959), Brunei (1984),...- East Timor seceded from Indonesia in 1999, May 20, 2002, becoming an independent country.b. Laos (1945 - 1975)* Period 1945 - 1954:- In August 1945, the Lao people rebelled to seize power. On October 12, 1945, the uprising woninterests in Vientiane, Laos declared independence.- March 1946, France invaded Laos again. Under the leadership of the Indochinese Communist Party andVietnamese volunteer army, the Lao people's resistance against the French developed strongly.Page 10ten- July 1954, France signed the Geneva Agreement, recognizing the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Laos.* Period 1954 - 1975:- After the Geneva Conference, the United States waged a new colonial war to invade Laos.- The Lao People's Army heroically resisted, defeating American war strategies in turn.- In February 1973, the Vientiane Agreement on the restoration of peace and national harmony in Laos was signedsigned.- From April 4 to December 1975, the Lao people liberated the whole country in turn. December 2, 1975,Lao People's Democratic Republic was established.c. Cambodia (1945 - 1993)* From 1945 to 1954 :- October 1945, France invaded Cambodia again. Under the leadership of the Eastern Communist PartyDuong (since 1951, the Cambodian People's Democratic Party), the Cambodian people waged a resistance war againstFrance.On November 9, 1953, France signed a treaty granting Cambodia independence.- July 1954, France signed the Geneva Agreement, recognizing the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.Cambodia.*From 1954 to early 1970: The Cambodian government led by Sihanouk followedneutral path of peace.*From 1970 to 1975:- March 1970, the US coup d'etat overthrow the government of Sihanouk. From here, the Cambodian people proceedwar against America.- On April 17, 1975, the capital Phnom Penh was liberated, the resistance war against the USVictory.* From 1975 - 1979:- Russia then, the red mercantile group betrayed CM, implemented a brutal genocide policy.- With the help of Vietnamese volunteers, the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPC) stood up to defeat the red mermaids.On January 7, 1979, the capital Phnom Penh was liberated, and the People's Republic of Cambodia was born.* From 1979 - 1991:- The civil war lasted more than 10 years and ended with the defeat of the red family.- October 1991, Peace Agreement on Cambodia was signed. 1993, declared the establishmentKingdom of Cambodia and entered the period of peace, construction and development of the country.2. The process of construction and development of Southeast Asian countriesa. Group of five founding countries of ASEAN+ After gaining independence, the group of 5 founding countries of ASEAN (Indonesia, Malaysia,Philippines, Thailand, and Singapore) have all pursued import substitution industrializationborder with the aim of building autonomous economy and achieve some success. However,This strategy gradually revealed its limitations, especially in terms of capital, raw materials and technology...+ From the 60s to the 70s, these countries switched to a strategy of oriented industrializationon exports - "opening up" the economy, attracting foreign investment and technology, promoting exportsimport goods, develop foreign trade. As a result, the economic growth rate of 5 countries is quite high.Page 1111b. Group of Indochinese countries(Ss read more - Reduce load)c. Other countries in Southeast Asia(Ss read more - Reduce load 1)LESSON 5. AFRICAN COUNTRIES AND Latin America AREAA. BASIC KNOWLEDGE1. A little bit about the struggle for independence- After the Second World War, the movement for independence exploded strongly inAfrica.* 1945-1975- PT movement since the 1950s, first in North Africa, then spread to other places.- The year 1960 was recorded as the "year of Africa" ​​with 17 countries (in West Africa, East Africa, CentralPhi) was independently returned- In 1975, the Mozambican and Angolan revolutions won, marking the collapse of the baseversion of old colonialism and its colonial system in Africa.*.After 1975: the people of the remaining colonies completed the struggle to overthrow the governmentold colonialism, gaining independence and people's right to life.+ The struggle for victory and the republics were born in Zimbabwe (April 1980),Namibia (March 1991)+ In South Africa, after the interracial democratic elections (April 1994), Mr. Nelson Mandelabecame the first black President, ending the barbaric apartheid (Apacthai) regime inthis country.2. Socio-economic development situation (LOAD REDUCTION)II. Latin American COUNTRIES1. Some details on the process of gaining and defending national independence- After World War II, the US sought to make Latin America its "backyard".and build pro-American dictatorships. => the struggle against the pro-American dictatorship broke outexplode and grow.- On January 1, 1959, the Cuban revolution under the leadership of Fidel Castro won victoryOverthrew the dictatorship of Batista, established the Republic of Cuba led by Fidel.- From the 60s to the 70s, the anti-American movement and the pro-American dictatorship became increasingly populargrow and win more:Page 1313+ The Panamanian people fought and recovered their sovereignty over the Panama Canal (1964-1999).+ By 1983, 13 countries in the Caribbean achieved their independence.- With various forms of struggle (workers' strike, peasant uprising,parliamentary struggle, especially the armed struggle), Latin America has become a "booming continent".tea". Latin American countries have, in turn, overthrew reactionary dictatorships and regained their people's sovereigntyethnic groups (Chile, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Guatemala).2. Situation of socio-economic development ( LOAD REDUCTION)LESSON 6. USAA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. COUNTRY FROM 1945 - 1973* Economic:After the Second World War, the American economy flourished.- Manifestations:+ Industrial output accounted for 56.5% of world industrial output (1948).- Agricultural output in 1949 was equal to twice that of Britain, France, Germany, Italy, and Japan plusback (1949)+ Holding over 50% of ships traveling at sea: 3/4 of the world's gold reserves.About 20 years after the war, the United States was the largest economic and financial center in the world.- Reason:+ Large territory, methodological resources, abundant and qualified human resourcesHighly artistic, dynamic, creative.The US took advantage of the war to get richPage 1515+ Successfully applying modern scientific and technical achievements to production.+ High concentration of production and capital, monopolies have large production power and are competitiveeffective painting.+ Due to the policy and regulatory measures of the state.* About science and technology- The United States is the starting place of the modern scientific and technological revolution and has achieved many achievementsgreat achievement.- Achievements: America leads in the following fields:+ Making new tools: Electronic calculators,+ Find new energy:+ Conquer the universe:+ Crafting new materials: polymers+ Take the lead in the "green revolution" in agriculture* About society- American society is not completely stable, contains many contradictions: class, ethnicity, povertyunemployment, many other social evils.* Foreign policy:- The United States deploys a global strategy with the ambition of world hegemony.- Target:+ Prevent, repel and proceed to destroy socialism.+ Suppression of world revolutionary movements.+ Control and dominate the Allied countries- Implementation: Initiating the Cold War, causing wars and conflicts in many placesrepresented as the war of aggression in Vietnam (1954 - 1975), intervention to overthrow the government in many placesIn the world.- The US also shook hands with major socialist countries: 2/1972 US President visited China,In May 1972, he visited the Soviet Union to make peace with two major countries to easily oppose the movementworld revolution.II. COUNTRY FROM 1973 - 1991* Economy :- From 1973 to 1982, the economy was in recession due to the impact of the energy crisis of 1973.* External relations: There are many changes.- After the failure in Vietnam, continue to implement the global strategy to increase competitionarmed confrontation with the Soviet Union.December 1989: The United States and the Soviet Union declare an end to the Cold War.III. COUNTRY FROM 1991 - 2000* Economy: During the 1990s, the US experienced short recessions, but the economyThe US economy is still at the top of the world.* Science and technology: Continuing to develop, accounting for 1/3 of the world's inventions.Page 1616* Foreign Affair:+ The Soviet Union broke up, the United States rose to "one pole" and led the world, but it was very difficult.LESSON 7. Western EuropeA. BASIC KNOWLEDGE1945 - 19501950 - 19731973 - 19911991 - 2000Economy- Being at warravage ® restoreeconomic recovery.- Based on the institutehelp America through the nextMarxist plan.In 1950, businesseconomy is restoredreturn.- Economic developmentdevelop fast- Early 70'sbecome onebusiness centereconomic, great finance,science - engineeringhigh art, showgreat.- The impact ofterriblepanicoil 1973,Western Europe falls inDepression.- Difficulty: Abuseplay, lowKarma,edgefierce fightwith America and JapanCopy.- Economic recoveryreturn to developmentagain.- Mid 90'sgross productoccupied by the nation1/3 of total productionProductspubliccareer of the worldgender.Politics - communefestival- Reinforce backgroundbourgeois democracy- Main stabilizationsocial justice- Democracyreinforcedsong also containsfull of variablesmotion.- Diversify richpoor.- Society's vicesoftenhappening- StabilityForeign Affair- Union tightclosely with America.- Find a way to shootback the coloniesold.- Some countriescontinue continuouslystrictwith America (UK,Germany, Italy)-Some countries havediversificationrelation toforeign.+MonthNovember 1972 EastDuc - Ta Ducsigned an agreement onbasesrelationship between 2Germany ® loveEuropean picturecool down.+October 3, 1990Unified GermanyBest.- There is changepositive except Englandstill alliedclosely with America.- Some countriesEurope has becometo be a counterweightof America.- Relationship withcountries belonging toThe old site was renovatedbenevolent.European Union EU* Birth and developmentIn 1951, the European Coal-Steel Community consisted of 6 countries: France, Ta Duc, Belgium, the Netherlands,Page 2020Italy, Luxembourg.- 1957 established the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community(EEC)- 1967 merged 3 organizations to form the European Community (EC)- On December 7, 1991, the EEC countries signed the Maxtric Treaty (Netherlands), progressing to the formation processthe new european union in 2000 with a common currency, a common bank...- On November 1, 1993, the EEC changed to the European Union (EU- On January 1, 1999, issued a common European currency (EURO) and on January 1, 2002, the main currency was issuedThe formula is in circulation in many EU countries.- About the number of members: Textbook* Diplomatic relations between Vietnam and Western Europe- In October 1990, the EU and Vietnam established official relations.- July 1995, EU and Vietnam signed a comprehensive cooperation agreement.LESSON 8. JAPAN FEMALEA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. Japan from 1945 - 1952.* Situation- Japan was devastated- Occupied by US troops from 1945 to 1952, commanding and supervising all activities* Contents of economic policies of Japan- On the economy: Implement three democratic reforms:+ Disbanding the Daibatsu+ Land reform+ Democratization of labor® Relying on US aid (1950 - 1951) Japan's economy recovered- Regarding foreign affairs: Close alliance with the US. On August 8, 1951, the US-Japan Security Treaty was signed.II. Japan from 1952 to 1973* Economic- From 1952 to 1960: rapid development.- From 1960-1973- miraculous development:+ 1960 - 1969 was 10.8% - > 1970-1973 decreased but still reached 7.8%, much higherother TB countries.+ In the early 70s, Japan became one of the three major economic-financial centers of the world* About science and technology-education+ Appropriate investment for domestic scientific research and purchase of inventions from abroadout.+ Mainly focus on the field of civil industry.* Developmental reasons:- Students look at the textbook* Limitations: Textbook* Foreign Affair:+ Basically: Close alliance with the US+ In 1956, normalized relations with the Soviet Union and joined the United Nations.III. Japan from 1973 to 1991* Economy:- Oil crisis in 1973, Japan's economy developed alternately with periodsPage 2525short recession.- In the 1980s, it rose to become the world's No. 1 financial superpower (the world's largest creditor).* Foreign Affair:- In the 1970s, Japan launched a new foreign policy: strengthening economic ties,political, cultural and social with Southeast Asian countries and ASEAN.- On September 21, 1973, Japan established diplomatic relations with Vietnam.IV. Japan from 1991 to 2000* Economy:- Perpetual recession* Science - technology: Continue to develop at a high level.* Politics: Somewhat unstable.* Foreign Affair:+ Get rid of dependence on the US+ To attach importance to relations with the West and expand foreign relations with other partners in the areaglobal micro.+ With the Asia - Pacific region, relations with Nics and ASEAN countries.LESSON 9: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONSDURING AND AFTER THE COLD WARA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. East-West Conflict and the Beginning of the Cold War.* Source- The opposition of goals and strategies between the two great powers, the Soviet Union and the United States- This conflict starts from the ambition and plot to dominate the world of America.- From an anti-Fascist alliance, the Soviet Union and the United States came to a state of confrontation:* American side :+ Theory of Toruman (1947)+ the Marxist plan (1947)The founding of the NaTo block (1949)*Soviet side+ Established the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (SEV) (1949)+ Organization of the Warsaw Pact (1955)→ The situation of two factions was established The Cold War covered the world.II. East-West confrontation and local wars (not taught)1. The Indochina War of the French Colonialists.- Since 1946, the people of Indochina waged a resistance war against the French re-invasion.- The Indochina War was increasingly influenced by two factions:+ Since 1949, Vietnam has received help from the Soviet Union, China, and Eastern Europe.+ 1950, America deeply intervened in the French war in Indochina.+ 1954, Geneva Agreement was signed, ending the French war in the EastAt the same time, it also clearly reflects the fierce struggle between the two factions.2. Korean War (1950 - 1953)In 1948, Korea was divided into two regions:+ From the 38th parallel to the North is the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (the Soviet Union said:aid).- From the 38th parallel to the south is the Republic of Korea (Korea) sponsored by the United StatesPage 3030- 1950 - 1953 War of 2 regions.→ Was SP of the Cold War and became a direct confrontation between 2 Soviet factions -America.3. The American imperialist's war to invade Vietnam (1954 - 1975)- From 1954 to 1975, the US carried out a new colonial invasion war in Vietnam.- Vietnam becomes the focus of the US global strategy.- With the help of the Soviet Union, China, and other socialist countries, Vietnam defeated theAmerica's strategy, forcing the US to sign the 1973 Paris Agreement to withdraw its troops and win in 1975completely.→ The Indochina War became the largest and longest local war,reflects the conflict between the two sides.III. The trend of East-West détente and the Cold War ended.- In the early 70's, the trend of reconciliation between East and West appeared- Manifestations:+ On November 9, 1972, East Germany - Ta Duc signed an Agreement on the basis of relations between the two countries.In 1972, the Soviet Union and the United States signed the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.+ In August 1975, 33 European countries, the US, and Canada signed the Henxinki Treaty - the Peace Treatysecurity and cooperation in Europe.+ Since the early 1970s, the two superpowers, the Soviet Union and the United States, have held high-level meetings.+ In December 1989, at a high-level meeting between the Soviet Union and the United States, the two sides announced the endCold War.=> The world still does not have a real peace and security, especially in poor countries,backward.IV. The World After the Cold War- From 1989 to 1991, the Soviet Union and the socialist system disintegrated = > the collapse of the two-pronged world. America isthe only pole that still exists- Current development trends of the world:+ The world order is forming in the direction of "multipolarity".+ All countries have adjusted their development strategies, focusing on economic development.+ The US tries to establish a "one-pole" order to dominate the world, but it is difficult to implement.+ World peace has been consolidated, but civil wars and conflicts still take place in many places.- In the 21st century, the trend of peace and international cooperation is the main trend.LESSON 10: SCIENCE - TECHNOLOGY REVOLUTIONAND THE TREND OF GLOBALIZATION AFTER THE Twentieth CenturyA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. The Scientific - Technological Revolution1.Origin and characteristics*SourceDerived from the requirements of life, of production, in order to meet the needs of material andhuman spirit is growing.*Characteristics- The greatest feature is that science becomes a direct productive force.- Science and engineering are closely linked, all technical inventions originate fromscientific research.2. Notable achievements(doesn't teach)II. The trend of globalization and its effects- Concept : Globalization is the process of dramatically increasing relationships and influencesPage 3333The interdependence, interdependence of all regions, countries, and peoples of the worldgender.- Manifestations:The rapid development of international trade.+ The great development of transnational programs.+ The merger and consolidation of the company into giant corporations+ The birth of international and regional economic, trade, and financial linkages.- Positives and limitations: Textbook→ Globalization is an inevitable and irreversible trend, both an opportunity and a challengefor each country, nationLESSON 11: SUMMARY OF MODERN WORLD HISTORY FROM 1945 TO 2000A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. Basic content of modern world history 1945 - 2000.1. The period from 1945 to 1991.a. A new world order was established - based on the agreement at Ianta. Image rangeThe influence mainly belongs to the two countries Soviet Union - America (led by the Soviet Union - the US at each pole) called 2 polesIanta.b. Socialism- Socialism transcends the scope of one country, becomes the world system- From 1973, socialism fell into crisis leading to collapse in 1991.Page 3535c. America: rise to become the richest and strongest capitalist country, leading the capitalist faction.- Western Europe - Japan: has risen strongly, thanks to self-correction in timesimportant.d. After the war, the national liberation movement developed strongly throughout Asia, Africa, and AmericaLatin collapsed the colonial system of colonialism, fundamentally changing the face of the worldgender.e. After the war, the main trend in international relations was fierce confrontationbetween two factions led by the Soviet Union and the United States.g. The second scientific-technological revolution started in the US, spread quickly to the world and reachedachieved miraculous achievements, bringing human beings to great strides in history.2. Period 1991 to present:+ A new world order is gradually taking shape: multipolar+ Countries adjust their relations in the direction of dialogue, compromise and cooperation.+ The trend of globalization is taking place strongly+ In many places, civil war, conflict and terrorism still take place, causing many harms and signaling dangernew opportunity to the worldLesson 12: NATIONAL DEMOCRACY MOVEMENTIN VIETNAM FROM 1919 TO 1925A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. New changes in political economy, culture and society in post-Chien VietnamWorld War I.1. The second colonial exploitation policy of the French colonialists.* Historical background:- After World War I, a new world order (Versai-Washington) was established.createFrance suffered heavy losses.In 1917, the Russian October Revolution was successful, and the communist international was bornstrong to the Vietnamese revolution→ In that context, the French conducted the second exploration in Indochina(after World War I to before the economic crisis 1929-1933.)* Purpose : + Compensate for damage after the war+ Restoring status in the capitalist world.* Economic exploitation policy:- Increase oil investment with fast speed, large scale- Agriculture: attracting the most capital, mainly in rubber plantations.- Industry: open mining (coal mine), salt, milling, textile...- Commerce: there was a new development, but the French monopoly- Transport: is developed, urban area is expanded, population is larger.- Raise taxes to increase the budget=> serving the interests of the French colonialists, inhibiting the development of Vietnam's economy.2. Politics, culture and education policy of the French colonialists (read more)3. New economic and class changes in Vietnam* Economy:- There is a new development step, but it is unbalanced, backward, and dependent on the French economy.* Society:- The landlord class : continued to divide a part of middle, small, and landowners participating in the movementnation and democracy.- Peasant class : + deprived of land, impoverished+ is a great revolutionary force.- The petty bourgeoisie : + rapidly increasing in number, anti-imperialist and we are wrong; teamintellectuals are sensitive to the times, ardent in struggle.- The bourgeoisie : divided into two parts: the commercial bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie- Working class : + Increase in number (by 1929 there were 220,000 people).Page 4343+ Characteristics - common of world industry CN- private: subject to 3 layers of oppression (imperialism, feudalism, native bourgeoisie), relatedstick with farmers; had a patriotic tradition, was soon influenced by the revolutionary movementproduce.→ Rise to become the revolutionary leadership class in the progressive directionII. Nationalist and democratic movement in Vietnam 1919-19251. Activities of Phan Boi Chau, Phan Chau Trinh and some Vietnamese in Vietnamforeign country.(doesn't teach)2. Activities of the Vietnamese bourgeoisie, petty bourgeoisie and workers.* Property:- Boycott foreign goods to use domestic goods.- In 1923, the landlords and bourgeoisie fought against the monopoly of Saigon port and exported rice in VietnamCochinchina of the French version.- In 1923, the bourgeoisie and landowners of Cochinchina also established the Constitutional Party and introduced the slogan demandingfreedom and democracy. hi France gave in, they stopped fighting* Petty bourgeoisie : active activity.- Establishing political organizations...- Activities with many rich and vibrant forms: rallies, demonstrations, lockouts...progressive publishing house, publishing progressive books.- The most typical is the struggle for the release of Phan Boi Chau (1925) and the mourning of Phan ChauTrinh (1926)* Workers : the workers' movement is still sporadic and spontaneous.- Workers of Saigon - Cho Lon set up a (secret) association headed by Ton Duc Thang.- August 1925: movement of workers at Ba Son shipyard → MarkThe new development of the workers' movement from spontaneous to self-conscious3. Nguyen Ai Quoc's activities- At the end of 1917, Nguyen Ai Quoc returned to France and joined the French Socialist Party.- On June 18, 1919, he sent to the Versailles Conference a petition demanding the rights of freedom, the people and the people.sovereignty and equality for the Vietnamese people.- 7-1920 Readers of Lenin's Thesis on National and Colonial Questions → Finding Childrencountry road.- February 1920, attended the Congress of Tassels, endorsed the Third International and joined the French Communist Party, becamethe first communist party member.- 1921, founded the Union of Colonies in Paris, published the newspaper The Poor, wrote articles for newspapers.Humanity, Worker's Life, wrote the book Judgment of the French colonial regime → secretly brought back to the country.- June 1923, went to the Soviet Union, attended the International Peasants Congress (October 1923) and attended the Communist InternationalV times (1924)- November 1924, He returned to Guangzhou (China) to directly propagate, educate and build theories.Page 4444organize the revolution to liberate the Vietnamese people.- The first merit of Nguyen Ai Quoc:+ Find a new way to save the country for the Vietnamese people.+ Prepare for ideology and knowledge for the birth of the Communist Party.LESSON 13. NATIONAL DEMOCRACY MOVIEIN VIETNAM FROM 1925 TO 1930A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. The birth and operation of 3 revolutionary organizations.1. Vietnam Revolutionary Youth Association:* Establish- November 1924, Nguyen Ai Quoc returned to Guangzhou, China, contacted peopleVietnam is patriotic in Tam Tam Commune.- In February 1925, selected some young people in Tam Tam commune to form the Communist Union.- In June 1925, Nguyen Ai Quoc founded the Vietnam Revolutionary Youth Association in order toled the masses to fight to overthrow the empire and its minions.* Activity- Open a political training class to train revolutionary soldiers and bring them back to work.- On June 21, 1925, the Youth Weekly was published as the association's mouthpiece.- In 1927, Nguyen Ai Quoc's lectures were collected and printed into the book The Way of the Wayfate- Systematically develop members and grassroots organizations from headquarters to ministries- In 1928, organized the proletarian movement.* Role:- Disseminating the revolutionary theory of national liberation in the proletariat-oriented region into VietnamMale.- Enlightenment, raising political consciousness for the working class. Promoting the public movementThe individual thrives into the self-conscious stage.- Manifestations:+ 1927 - 1929, the workers' movement developed strongly in the economic and political centers...+ Workers' strikes have links between sectors, professions, and localitiesgeneral movement.- Prepare politically, organizationally and cadres for the birth of the Party.2. Tan Viet revolutionary party(read more)3. Vietnam Nationalist Party* EstablishOn December 25, 1927, VNQD was established (by Nguyen Thai Ho, Pham Tuan Tai,Nguyen Khac Nhu..) leader* Operation trend:In 1929, the Kuomintang launched a plan of action based on the idea of ​​"freedom, equality".equal love"- divided into 4 periods, the last period is to overthrow the throne, establish civil rights" follow mePage 4747bourgeois revolutionary road* Yen Bai uprising:In February 1929, the VNQD organized the assassination of the grave boss Badanh in Hanoi, Francerevolutionary barbaric terror- Being passive in the face of that situation, the VNQD poured all its forces into the Yen uprisingBai (February 9, 1930) with the motto "failure is also successful", but finallyfail- The Yen Bai uprising encouraged our people's patriotism and hatred for the enemy. Copperterminating the role of VNQDD* Causes of failure of Yen Bai uprising:- Exploding in a passive situation (insurrection in a reluctant situation, young violence)- no preparation, no basis in the masses... broke out alone* Role (sgk )II. Communist Party of Vietnam was born.1. The emergence of communist organizations in 1929- In 1929, the nationalist and democratic movement developed strongly in which the proletariat oriented sectorprevail → Require the establishment of communist organizations.- In March 1929, the advanced members of the Vietnamese revolutionary youth set up a branchThe first communist at house number 5D Ham Long street - Hanoi.- May 1929, at the First National Congress of Vietnam, the Qing RevolutionAt the time, the North Vietnamese delegate proposed the establishment of a communist party. not accepted, leftcountry.- On June 17, 1929, the Communist Party of Indochina was established at 312 Kham Thien.- In August 1929, members of Vietnam's youth revolution at headquarters and in Cochinchinaestablished the Annam communist party.- In September 1929, the advanced party members of Tan Viet established the communist Indochinagroup in China.* Meaning : - Reflecting the objective trend of the national liberation movement in VietnamMale.- Direct preparation for the birth of a proletarian political party in Vietnam.2. Founding Conference of the Communist Party of Vietnama. Circumstances of convening a conference- In 1929, 3 communist organizations were born, operating separately -> required to be unifieda single party.- January 6, 1930 Nguyen Ai Quoc presided over the unification conference in Cuu Long (Huong Cang-China).Country).b. Conference content- Nguyen Ai Quoc, as an envoy of the Communist International, analyzed the situationgender, domestic, criticizing the lack of uniformity of organizations, suggesting that organizations unitePage 4848- The conference discussed and agreed to unify the Communist Party of Vietnam.- Approving the first political program of the Party, drafted by Nguyen Ai Quoc.- Curriculum content (sgk)- February 24, 1930 Indochinese communist federation joined the Communist Party.c. Meaning- Is the product of the combination of Marxism-Leninism with the workers' movement andpatriotic movement in Vietnam.- Created a great turning point in the history of the Vietnamese revolution.+ Since then, the Vietnamese revolution has taken a scientific and creative line.+ Is the first decisive step for the leaps and bounds of developmentViet Nam's revolution.+ The Vietnamese revolution became part of the world revolution.LESSON 14. REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT 1930 – 1935A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. Vietnam in the years 1929-19331. Economic situation- Since 1930, Vietnam entered the recession period+ Agriculture: low prices of rice, agricultural products, fallow land.+ Industry: decline+ Trade: goods are scarce, prices are expensive...- T affects XH..2. Social situation- People's lives are miserable+ Unemployed workers, meager wages..+ Farmers: high taxes, abandoned land...+ Other classes face many difficulties- Sharp social contradictions: between the Vietnamese people and the French and between farmers and landlords = >outbreak of the CM 30-31 movement.II. Revolutionary movement 1930-1931 with the peak of Xo Viet Nghe - Tinh1. Revolutionary movement 1930 – 1931a. Cause of Explosion- The impact of the economic crisis- The Communist Party of Vietnam was born.b. Developments- 2 - > 4 -1930 broke out many struggles of workers and farmers:….- On May 1, struggles broke out throughout the country to celebrate International Labor Daymotion.- In June, August, and August, the movement was active in the whole country- September 1930, the movement surged in Nghe An, Ha Tinh.. typically farmers' demonstrationsHung Nguyen district (Nghe An) -> the system of colonial and feudal government was paralyzed -> the SovietsWrite established.2. Xo Viet Nghe - Tinh- From September 1930 - early 1931 Soviets were born in the communes of the districts of Nghe AnAn, Ha Tinh.Exercising the people's right to mastery, operating all aspects of social life:+ About politics: exercise the democratic freedoms for the people.Establish self-defense teamswhose core is red self-defense, establish a people's court+ Economic: confiscation of land and distribution to poor ploughmen, abolition of body tax, market tax..+ Culture-society: eliminating superstitions, building a new lifestyle...- Nghe Tinh Soviet was the culmination of the revolutionary movement 30-31Page 5252- France implemented repression and persecution => since mid-1931 the movement had temporarily subsided.3. The first meeting of the Provisional Central Committee of the Communist Party of VietnamMale (October 1930)- October 1930 the first conference in Hong Kong (China)- Decided to change the name of the Party to the Indochinese Communist Party, appointing the Executive Committee made by Tran Phugeneral secretary; Through the political thesis of the Party- Dissertation content:+ Strategies and strategies of the Vietnamese Communist Party: at first it was a civil rights revolution, then continued to develop.development, skip the capitalist period, go straight to socialism+ Mission: defeat feudalism and empire+ CM dynamics: working class and farmers+ Methods, forms…Fight4 . Historical significance and lessons learned of the revolutionary movement 1930-1931- Meaning: is the first rehearsal of the Party+ Affirming the correct line of the Party..+ Forming a union of workers and farmers+ The Communist Party of Vietnam recognizes the CPV as a part of the Communist Party- Lessons learned (textbook)III. Revolutionary movement in the years 1932 - 1935(Do not teach)LESSON 15. DEMOCRACY MOVEMENT 1936 – 1939A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. World and domestic situation1. World situation- Fascism was born- The Seventh University of the Communist International (July 1935) determined the task of anti-Fascist andrisk of war.- June 1936, the People's Front came to power in France, implementing a number of progressive policies in the French colonygeography.2. Situation in the countrya. Political situation- France expands more freedom and democracy - > Political parties race to work.b. Economic situation- There is recovery and growthPage 5555- Vietnam's economy is still backward and dependent on France+ Agriculture: France occupied the land of the peasants and set up plantations+ Industry: promote mining+ Trade: France monopolizes the sale of opium, wine, salt...c. Society- Farmers: loss of land, high rent,- Unemployed workers- Small bourgeoisie some unemployment, low wages, high taxes, high cost of living.- Ethnic bourgeoisie with little capital, suppressed by French capital.- Most of the people still live in difficult and miserable conditions -> struggle.II. Democracy movement 1936-19391. Conference of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Indochina in July 1936- In Shanghai (China), chaired by Le Hong Phong- Based on the Resolution of the VII University of the Communist Party of Vietnam, the specific situation of Vietnam proposes a strategy and method to fightpaintings+ Strategic mission: fight against the enemy and P+ Direct tasks: fight against the colonial reactionary regime, anti-Fascist, anti-colonialwar, freedom, people's livelihood, democracy, peace+ The immediate enemy is the French reactionary colonialists and their henchmen+ PP struggle: combining forms of publicity and secrecy, legal and illegal+ Policy: to establish the People's United Front against the Indochinese Empire, until March 3, 1938changed to the Indochinese democratic front- The 1937, 1938 conference continued to supplement and develop.2. Typical struggle movementsa. Fight for the rights of freedom, people's life and democracy- The establishment action committees -> Mittinh, meetingb. Parliamentary struggle (read more)c. Fighting in the field of journalism (read more)3. Historical significance and lessons learned of the 1936-1939 democracy movement* Historical significance- Being a large, organized mass party under the leadership of the Communist Party of Vietnam- Forcing the colonial government to yield to certain demands on people's livelihood and democracy.- The masses are politically enlightened and become a powerful political force.* Lessons Learned- Building the front- Organizations leading the masses to fight openly and legally...-> Movement 36-39 as a rehearsal to prepare for the general uprising in August.LESSON 16. THE MONTH'S CLEARANCE AND GENERAL UprisingEIGHT (1939-1945). DEMOCRACY REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM was born.A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. The situation of Vietnam in the years 1939-19451. Political Situation- September 1939 World War II broke out -> France surrendered to the Fascists- 9-1940 Japan entered Indochina -> France surrendered=> Vietnam was under the domination of France and Japan2. Socio-economic situation* Economy- France:- Order "total mobilization"- "economical leadership"- Japan: - make France pay money- Traffic control- rob farmers' land- The bowl of our people uprooting rice, planting banyan* Society- At the end of 1944 and early 1945, nearly 2 million of our compatriots died of starvation, the lives of all classes of peopleare all affected.II. National liberation movement from September 1939 to March 19451. Conference of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Indochina in November 1939November 1939 at Ba Diem (Hoc Mon-Gia Dinh) chaired by General Secretary Nguyen Van Cu.Page 5858- Policy: Temporarily put aside the slogan of land revolution -> confiscate the land of the colonists,Empires and traitors divided among the peasants.- Objectives and methods of struggle: to switch from fighting for people's livelihood and democracy to fighting forfight directly to overthrow the imperial government and its minions; from legal to covert activitysecret, illegal.- The policy of establishing the anti-imperialist Indochinese National United Front.- Meaning : Marks an important turning point in strategic direction. Set a questnational liberation to the forefront. bringing our people into the period of direct mobilization for national salvation.2. The struggles that opened a new era.(doesn't teach)3. Nguyen Ai Quoc returned home to directly lead the Communist Party. 8th Conference of the Central Committee of the PartyCommunist Indochina (May 1941)- January 28, 1941 Nguyen Ai Quoc returned home to directly lead the Vietnamese revolution- 10 - > May 19, 1941 The chairman of the 8th meeting of the Central Committee in Pac Bo (Cao Bang)- Content of the conference+ The main task, in the immediate future, is national liberation+ Decided to temporarily put aside the slogan of land reform and replace it with the slogan of reducing rent, reducing anger,divide the public fields, move towards the plowmen who have fields.+ Morphology: going from partial uprising to total skills, considering skill preparation as a central taskthe heart of the entire Party and the people+ Hanoi decided to establish the Dong Minh (Viet Minh) independent Vietnam front. May 19, 1941Independent Vietnam Allied (Viet Minh was born)- Meaning: Completing the strategic policy, putting the issue of national liberation on the top.4. Prepare to advance to KN to seize power.a. Building forces for the armed struggle* Political force- Building national salvation associations in the Viet Minh front- 1943 The Party proposed the Vietnamese Cultural Outline- !944 The Democratic Party of Vietnam and the Vietnamese National Salvation Culture Association were established on the Vietnamese frontMinh* Armed Forces-After the defeat of the Bac Son army, a part of the armed forces developed into a guerrilla team.- 1941 Bac Son guerrilla team grew strong, unified into the National Salvation Army I - >phatguerrilla warfare within 8 months (July 1941 - > February 1942)- September 15, 1941, the Second National Army Salvation Platoon was born.* Build the base- Bac Son - Vo Nhai- As tall as=> are the first 2 bases.Page 5959b. Urgent preparation of armed forces to seize power- Background: World War 2 has entered the final stage, Fascism is in danger of beneficial defeatfor Vietnamese CM- Preparation process (textbook)+ 25 -> 28-2-1943 The Standing Committee of the T Party met to outline the plan:+ In Bac Son- Vo Nhai: The Third National Salvation Platoon was born+ In Cao Bang: self-defense and guerrilla teams were established+ May 7, 1944, the Viet Minh issued a directive "Preparing N"+ August 10, 1944 BILLION Party calls for "Purchasing weapons to chase common enemies"+ December 22, 1944 Vietnam propagated the establishment of the Liberation Army.III. Armed uprising to seize power1. Partial uprising (from March to mid-August 1945)a. Historical background- In early 1945, the Soviet Red Army attacked Nazi Germany, a series of European countries wereliberate, release, free.- Asia-Pacific: Japan is defeated- Indochina: Sharp Japan-France conflict - > March 9, 1945 Japan couped France, Francesurrender. Japan monopolized Indochina.b. Party policy- March 12, 1945 The Standing Committee of the Party Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam issued the directive "Japan and France shot each other and the actions ofwe"Instruction content:+ Identify the main enemy of the people of Indochina as the Japanese fascists.+ Replace the slogan "Fight France-Japan" with "Fight Japanese fascists"+ The form of struggle from non-cooperation, strike, market strike, etc., is ready to be changed to general initiativemeaning when conditional.+ Launching the anti-Japanese movement to save the countryc.The evolution of the climax- At the base of Cao-Bac-Lang- In Tonkin- In Quang Ngai- In Cochinchina2. The final preparation before the day of the general uprisingFrom April 15 to April 20, 1945, the Standing Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam convened a military conference of Bac Ky and decided toResolution: Unify and further develop the armed forces- April 16, 1945, the Vietnam National People's Committee and the National People's Committee of Vietnam was established- May 15, 1945 VNTTGPQ and National Salvation Army unified into VNGPQ- June 4, 1945 Viet Bac GP area was established. Tan Trao was chosen as the "capital" of the areaPage 6060liberate, release, free.3. General uprising in August 1945a. Japan surrendered to the Allies, the order of General Uprising was issued- On August 15, 1945, Japanese fascists surrendered to the Allies.- In Indochina, the Japanese army was exhausted. Tran Trong Kim's government and its bewildered minionsformer degree.→ Objective conditions favorable to the General Uprising.- On August 13, 1945, the National Uprising Committee was established, issued Military Order NoGeneral uprising.- On August 14 to August 15, 1945, the National Conference of the Party was held in Tan Trao (TuyenTQuang) approved the General Uprising plan...- From August 16 to 17, 1945, the Tan Trao National Congress was convened to endorse the policyuprising: Appointing the National Liberation Committee chaired by Ho Chi Minh....b. Evolution of the General UprisingTimetimeNotable events14-8In many localities, people's uprisings have been launched16-8The first liberation army returned to liberate Thai Nguyen18-8Four provinces won the government at the earliest: Bac Giang, Hai Duong, HaTinh, Quang Nam19-8Hanoi won power, cheered loudly for the general election in the whole yearcountry. From then on, the General Uprising took place faster.23-8Hue won power25-8Saigon takes power28-8The last localities to seize power: Dong Nai Thuong andHa Tien30-8Bao Dai abdicates, gives seals, swords for revolution=> Total KN took place and won quickly, on a large scale, with little blood and bone.LESSON 17. DEMOCRACY REPUBLIC OF VIETNAMFROM SEPTEMBER 2, 1945 TO BEFORE DECEMBER 19, 1946A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. SITUATION OF OUR COUNTRY AFTER THE REVOLUTION OF AUGUST 19451. Difficulty- The armies of the Allied countries, in the name of the Japanese solution, have flocked inOur country (from the 16th parallel to the North has 200,000 troops of the Republic of China, from the 16th parallel to the north).Nam is the British army mixed with some French troops...).- The newly established revolutionary government has not been consolidated, the armed forces are stillyoung and weak.- The economy of our country, which was already backward, was severely damaged by the war. Human lifepeople face many difficulties.- The state budget is now almost empty.- More than 90% of the population is illiterate.Our country is facing the dangerous situation of "Thousands of pounds hanging hair".2. Advantages- Our people have won the right to master, initially enjoy freedom, so they are very excited and attachedbundle with mode.- Our country's revolution is led by the Party, led by President Ho Chi Minh.- In the world, the socialist system is forming, the national liberation movementrising in many colonial and dependent countries, the movement for peace and democracy developeddeveloped in many countries.II. THE FIRST STEP TO BUILD REVOLUTIONARY GOVERNMENT, SOLUTIONING THE FIGHT,DIFFERENCE AND FINANCIAL DIFFICULTY1. Building a revolutionary governmentPage 6363- Carrying out the general election in the whole country (January 6, 1946).- Approval of the list of the Government of the Resistance Coalition headed by President Ho Chi Minhhead.- The National Assembly ratifies the first Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (November 9).1946).- The Liberation Army of Vietnam was reorganized and changed to the National Guard (September 1945). DayOn May 22, 1946, the National Guard was changed to the Vietnam National Army.2. Solve hunger- Urgent measures: organizing donations, regulating rice among localities in the countrycountry, severely punish the speculators hoarding rice. President Ho Chi Minh called on the peoplecountry "Give up rice and share clothes", "Her rice bowls save hunger", "Ivory Dong Tam".- To solve the basic problem of hunger, increasing production is the first measure of long-term naturelong. President Ho Chi Minh called for "Increasing production! Increase Russian production! Increase wealthout again!” .- The revolutionary government ordered to abolish the body tax and other unreasonable taxes of the regimeold, reduce rent by 25%, reduce land tax by 20%, confiscate land of the empire and Viet cheaters to divide bypoor farmers, fair and democratic land division.Thanks to the above positive measures, agricultural production was quickly restoredIn return, the famine was pushed back one step.3. Solve ignorance- On September 8, 1945, President Ho Chi Minh signed a decree establishing Nha Binh People's Academy,calling on people throughout the country to join the movement to eliminate illiteracy.- Within 1 year (September 8, 1945 to September 8, 1946), nearly 76,000 VND was organized nationwideclasses, illiteracy eradication for 2.5 million people.Schools at the high school and university levels were soon opened to train young workersloyal and capable people and cadres to serve the Fatherland. Educational content and methodswas initially renewed in the spirit of nationalism - democracy.4. Solve financial difficulties- The Government calls for the spirit of voluntary contributions from the people of the whole country.- Launching movements to build "Independence Fund", "Golden Week".- In a short time, people have voluntarily contributed 370kg of gold, 20 million VNDinto the "Independent Fund", 40 million VND into the "Defense Support Fund".- On January 31, 1946, the Government issued a decree to issue Vietnamese currency and on November 23 -In 1946, the National Assembly decided to allow the circulation of Vietnamese money in the whole country instead of the Indochinese currency ofFrance before.III. FIGHT AGAINST FOREIGN AGRICULTURE AND INTEREST, PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENTREVOLUTION1. The resistance war against the French colonialists returned to invade the South- On the night of September 22 and early morning of September 23, 1945, the French colonialists attacked the headquarters of the People's CommitteeSoutherners and Saigon city self-defense agency, starting the war to invade our countrythe second time.Page 64sixty four- On October 5, 1945, the French army was reinforced and expanded to occupy the South and the SouthCentral.- The Central Committee of the Party, Government and President Ho Chi Minh mobilized the whole country to spendaid for the South and South Central Vietnam resistance wars.2. Struggling with the Republic of China army and counter-revolutionaries in the North- Policy: temporary peace, avoid conflict with the Republic of China army.- Implementing the above policy, we agree to cede 70 seats to Viet Quoc and Viet Cach partiesin the unelected parliament, 4 Ministerial seats in the official coalition government, allowingNguyen Hai Than holds the position of Vice President of the country, provides a part of food,means of transportation, allowing the use of Chinese currency in the market.- To the henchmen of the Republic of China army, resolutely expose the plot andtheir acts of division and destruction.- Effect: limit anti-sabotage activities of the Republic of China and its henchmen, dofailed attempts to overthrow their revolutionary government.3. Make peace with France to push the Republic of China troops out of our countrya. Preliminary Agreement® Cause :- On February 28, 1946, the Sino-French Treaty was signed, under which France was allowed to deploy troopsThe North replaced the Republic of China Army on the task of disarming the Japanese.- The Sino-French Treaty has put our people in front of a choice: either take up arms and fightagainst the French colonialists, not allowing them to land in the North; or renegotiate the French concessionto avoid having to deal with multiple enemies at once.- On March 3, 1946, the Standing Committee of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam held a meeting to choose the solution "Peace to win".up".- On the afternoon of March 6, 1946, in Hanoi, President Ho Chi Minh signed the Agreement with G. GreentonPreliminary.® Content :- The French government recognizes the Democratic Republic of Vietnam as a free countryOwn government, own parliament, own army, own finances and a member of the FederationIndochina, located in the French Union.- The Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam agreed to send 15,000 French troops to the North insteadChinese Kuomintang troops to disarm the Japanese army, these troops will be stationed atspecified locations and gradually withdrawn over a period of 5 years.- The two sides stopped all conflicts in the south and kept their armies in placeold, creating a favorable atmosphere for official negotiations on foreign affairs ofVietnam, the future regime of Indochina, the economic and cultural interests of the French inVietnam.® Meaning :- Avoid unfavorable combat because you have to fight many enemies at the same time.- Took 200,000 troops of the Republic of China and his henchmen out of our country.Page 6565- There is more peaceful time to strengthen the revolutionary government, prepare all forcesface for the long resistance against the French colonialists.b. Estimated date of September 14, 1946- After signing the Preliminary Agreement, the French colonialists continued to cause armed conflicts in the South,The negotiations at Fontanelle failed, the relationship between Vietnam and France became increasingly tense, at riskchance of war.- Faced with that situation, President Ho Chi Minh, signed with Mute the Temporary Covenant on September 14 -In 1946, the French conceded a number of economic and cultural interests in Vietnam. The Covenant createdconditions for us to have more time to build, strengthen our forces, prepare to enter the resistancelong national war against France.LESSON 18: THE FIRST YEARS OF THE NATIONAL RESISTANCEANTI-FRANCE (1946 - 1950)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. THE RESISTANCE AGAINST THE FRENCH COLORIZATION BREAKING1. The French colonialists broke the treaty and attacked our country- The French government was dishonest in signing the Preliminary Agreement on March 6, 1946 and the Provisional AgreementSeptember 14, 1946 with Vietnam, after signing it, he tried to sabotage it and prepare to invade againour country.- Most blatantly, on December 18, 19, 1946, France sent an ultimatum demanding that we disbandthe self-defense forces fought, leaving the French army to do the task of keeping order in Hanoi. If that requestIf not accepted, France will act at the latest on the morning of December 20, 1946.2. The Party's line of resistance against France- Faced with the provocative actions of France, our Party and Government must havetimely decisions. On December 12, 1946, the Standing Committee of the Party Central Committee issued a directiveThe whole people resisted.- On December 18 and 19, 1946, the Extraordinary Conference of the Standing Committee of the Party Central Committee openedheld a meeting and decided to launch the whole country against the French colonialists' invasion.- On the evening of December 19, 1946, President Ho Chi Minh issued a call for the national resistance. TheThe national war begins.- From March - 1947, General Secretary Truong Chinh wrote a series of newspapers explaining in detail aboutResistance line, until September 1947 printed into the work The Resistance is certain to win.- The call for the national resistance, the directive of the whole people to resist, and the work of ResistanceThe war is certain to be won are important historical documents on the resistance line, clearly statingThe nature and motto of the resistance war against the French were: All people, comprehensive, self-reliantand enlist international support.II. RESISTANCE IN CURBILES AND PREPARATION FOR THE RESISTANCELONG WAR1. The battle in the cities north of the 16th parallel- Around 8:00 p.m. on December 19, 1946, the national resistance war against the French broke out,Starting from Hanoi. After two months of fighting (December 19, 1946 to February 17, 1947), our troops withdrew fromEncircle the enemy to a safe base, complete the task of keeping the enemy in the city in timemobilization of resistance forces.- In other cities, our army and people surrounded, attacked and destroyed many enemies.2. Actively prepare for the long resistance- After withdrawing from Hanoi, the Party, Government, Front, mass organizations...moved to the Viet Bac base.- The Party and Government shall lead and organize the people nationwide to build resistance forcesabout everything :+ In terms of politics, the administrative committees were transformed into the administrative resistance committeesPage 67sixty sevenperforming the tasks of resistance war and national construction; Expanding the Front, establishing the National UnionVietnam (Lien Viet).Economically, the Government sets out policies to maintain and develop production, beforemainly food production.+ Regarding the military, the Government stipulates that all citizens from 18 to 45 years old are selected to participate in the militaryjoin the fighting forces.Culturally, the popular academic movement is maintained and developed. High Schoolall levels continued to teach and study in the war situation.III. VIETNAM BANK COMPANY Autumn - Winter 1947 AND THE PROMOTION OF RESISTANCEALL PEOPLE, COMPREHENSIVE WAR1. Viet Bac campaign autumn - winter 1947- Conspiracies of the enemy: raiding bases, destroying headquarters and main forces, destroyingour international communications. They conspired to gain victory, proceeding to establish a compensatory governmentlook, quickly end the war.- The Party's policy: "to destroy the French winter offensive".® Evolution :- On October 7, 1947, France mobilized 12,000 troops and most aircraft in Indochina to attackVietnamese Bac.- On the fronts, our troops fought bravely, step by step repelling the enemy's attackenemy.+ In Bac Kan (road No. 3), our troops fought over 20 battles forcing the French to withdraw from Cho Don,Cho Ra in November 1947.+ On the eastern front (road 4), our troops conducted many ambushes and attritionenemy force. In particular, the ambush at Copy - Bong Lau pass, consumed a lot of forcesenemy. Route 4 became the "Road of Death", forcing the enemy into isolation and having to withdraw from BanThi.+ On the western front (Lo River), our troops blocked and defeated the enemy in many battles on the river, notablyBattle of Doan Hung, he Lau sank many enemy ships and canoes.- The enemy's eastern and western pincers were broken and could not be closed. December 19 -1947, France withdrew from Viet Bac.® Result :- Our army and people eliminated more than 6000 enemies from the battle ring, shot down 16 mothers and fathers, sunk 11warships, canoes, destroy many means of war.- The resistance headquarters is preserved.- Our main army has matured.® Meaning :- With the victory of Viet Bac in autumn - winter 1947, the national resistance war against colonialismFrench invasion moved to a new stage.- France was forced to change its war strategy in Indochina, from "fight fast, win".quickly" to "long-term fighting", implementing the policy of "using the Vietnamese to rule the Vietnamese, taking the war".fighting for war”.Page 68682. To step up the all-people and comprehensive resistance war kháng- Our Party and Government advocate strengthening the people's democratic government from the central governmentto the grassroots, strengthen the people's armed forces, step up the all-people and all-people resistance warface.On the political front:+ At the beginning of 1949, the Government decided to organize the election of the People's Council and Committeeadministrative resistance at all levels.+ In June 1949, the Viet Minh and Lien Viet Front decided to unify the two groupsoffice.- On the military front: in the years 1948 - 1949, the main troops dispersed and went deepinto the area behind the enemy, building a base for resistance, and developing guerrilla warfare.- On the economic front: The Government issued a decree to reduce rent by 25% (July 1949), debt postponement, debt cancellation (5 .)- 1950), redistribute public land and temporarily grant vacant land, land taken from the imperialists,reactionaries (July 1950)...- On the cultural and educational front:+ In July 1950, the Government set out the policy of reforming general education, laying the foundationfor the education of the nation, democracy in Vietnam (replacing the old education system with an educational systemnew - 9 years).+ The system of universities and professional schools also began to be built.II. NEW HISTORICAL CONCEPT AND Autumn - Winter YEAR BORDER CAMPAIGN19501. New historical circumstances of the resistance war- The Chinese Revolution was successful, the People's Republic of China was born (October 1 - October 1, 2016).1949).- China, the Soviet Union and the countries in the socialist camp, respectively, recognized anddiplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam.- On May 13, 1949, the French government proposed the Réve plan. With Plan Rove, America used todeep intervention and "direct involvement" in the Indochina war.To carry out the Rove plan, from June 1949, France brought many new weapons into Vietnam,concentrate troops in the South, the Central to the North, strengthen the defense system on the 4th road,establish "East - West corridor" (Hai Phong - Hanoi - Hoa Binh - Son La). On that basis,The French prepared a large-scale plan to attack Viet Bac for the second time, hoping to win.quickly end the war.2. Autumn-Winter Border Campaign 1950a. Purpose- Destroy an important part of the enemy's life force.- Open the way of communication with China and the democratic world.- Expand and strengthen the Viet Bac base, at the same time create new advantages to promote the warresistance advance.b. DevelopmentsPage 6969- On September 16, 1950, our army opened the campaign with the battle on Dong He. Aftera month of fighting, the campaign ended successfully.Result: liberated the Vietnam - China border line from Cao Bang to Dinh Lap with a length of 750kmwith 350,000 people, breaking through the "East-West Corridor" of France. Plan Rove is bankrupt.c. Meaning- Our way of communication with the socialist countries is open.- Our army has matured, taking the initiative in all main battlefields (Northern Vietnam).The set).- Opening a new development stage of the resistance war.LESSON 19. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATIONAL RESISTANCEANTI-FRANCE (1951 - 1953)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. FRENCH COLOLIZATION PROMOTES THE WAR OF INTRODUCTION IN Indochina1. America deeply intervened in the war- On December 23, 1950, the United States signed the Indochina Mutual Defense Agreement with FranceAmerica gradually replaced France in Indochina.- In September 1951, the US signed with Bao Dai the Vietnam - US economic cooperation treaty to directlybound Bao Dai's government to the US.2. Plan de Lat de Tassanhi- Purpose: quickly end the war.- Content :+ Build a strong strategic mobility force.+ Set up a white belt.+ Waging total war.+ Destroy our rear.II. The 2nd Congress of the Party's Deputies (2 - 1951)- Time: from the 11th to the 19th of February, 1951 in Vinh Quang - Chiem Hoa (Tuyen Quang).- Approving the Political Report and the Report on Discussing the Vietnamese Revolution.- The congress decided to separate the Indochinese Communist Party to establish in Vietnam, Laos,Cambodia each has its own Marxist-Leninist Party, with a platform suitable to the characteristics of developmentdevelopment of each nation. In Vietnam, the Congress decided to make the Party work openly with theThe new name is the Vietnam Labor Party, continuing to take on the historic mission of leading the resistanceVietnam War.Page 7171- The Congress passed the Manifesto, the Politburo, and the new Charter; decided to publish the newspaperPeople, mouthpiece of the Party.- The Congress elects the Party Central Committee and the Politburo. Ho Chi Minh was electedHolding the position of Party Chairman, Truong Chinh was elected General Secretary of the Party.- The 2nd Congress is a milestone marking a new development in the process of leadership andgrowth of our Party.III. BACK OF RESISTANCE DEVELOPING EVERY BILLION- Politics: Lien Viet Front was established; Vietnam - Myanmar - Laos People's Unionestablished (March 11, 1951) ; The patriotic emulation movement is increasingly penetrating and spreading in thesectors and genders.- Economy: agriculture, industry, handicraft all have developed. From April- 1953 to July 1954, 5 periods of land rent reduction and 1 land reform were implemented.- Culture, education, health: continuing education reform, popularization movementservice. Artists and writers enthusiastically penetrated all aspects of life, fighting and production. Care workTaking care of people's health is important.IV. ADVERTISING CAMPAITS KEEPING THE ACTIVE AREA ONBATTLEGROUNDS1. Campaigns in the Northern Midlands and Plains (from late 1950 to mid-1951)- Purpose: maintain the initiative, push the enemy back into a passive position to deal with.- Campaigns: Tran Hung Dao, Hoang Hoa Tham, Quang Trung.2. Peace campaign winter - spring 1951 - 1952- Purpose: destroy the enemy's life force in Hoa Binh, destroy their plan to pacify inthe Northern Plains and stepped up guerrilla warfare.- Result: after two months, we completely liberated the area of ​​Hoa Binh - Song Da 2000 rộng widekm 2 with 150,000 people, our guerrilla bases were expanded.3. Northwest campaign autumn - winter 1952- Purpose: destroy the enemy's vitality, enlist the people, liberate the land.- Result: liberated 28 500 km 2 with 250,000 people including Nghia Lo province, most of the provinceSon La (except Na San), four districts in Lai Chau, two districts in Yen Bai, partially destroyed the conspiracy to establishthe enemy's "autonomous Thai land".4. Upper Laos campaign spring - summer 1953- Purpose: destroy the enemy's life force, liberate the land, promote the resistance of the enemyLao people.- Result: liberated the entire Sam Nua province, a part of Xieng Khouang province and the provincePhongxay with over 30,000 people.LESSON 20. THE NATIONWIDE RESISTANCE AGAINST WORDTHE END OF FRENCH COLORIZATION (1953 - 1954)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. NEW FORM OF FRANCE - US IN INDOCHINA. PLAN NAVA1. Historical circumstances- After 8 years of resistance war and national construction, the resistance force of our people is largesignificantly strong.- France suffered more and more damage, the occupied area was narrowed. The French army is in a positiondefensive, passive.- The United States intervened deeply in the Indochina war, actively preparing to replace France.2. The Nava . Plan- Purpose: in 18 months to win a decisive victory to "end the war".in honor".Content: The plan consists of two steps:The first step (autumn - winter 1953 and spring 1954), maintaining a strategic defensive position in the North,strategic offensive to pacify Central and South Indochina.The second step (from autumn - winter 1954), transferred forces to the northern battlefield, implemented thựcstrategic offensive, trying to win decisive military victory, forcing us to negotiate according toconditions favorable to them and "end the war with honor".II. THE WINTER - SPRING 1953 - 1954 STRATEGY AND CAMPAIGNDIEN BIEN PHU IN 19541. The Winter-Spring Strategic Offensive 1953 - 1954At the end of September 1953, the Politburo of the Party Central Committee met in Viet Bac tomilitary plan for Winter - Spring 1953 - 1954.a. Policy- Mission: destroy the enemy is the main.- Strategic direction: actively launch attacks to force the enemy to disperseforce.b. Developments- On December 10, 1953, a part of our main army attacked Lai Chau townfrom the battle round of 24 enemy companies, liberated all of Lai Chau (except Dien Bien Phu).- In early December 1953, the Lao-Vietnamese coalition launched an attack on the enemy in Central Laos, destroying the enemy3 European - African battalions, liberated 40,000 km 2 and Tha Khet town; besiege and threaten Savannakhetand the Xeno base.- At the end of January 1954, the Lao-Vietnamese coalition attacked the enemy in Upper Laos, liberating theIn the area of ​​Nam Hu river, the whole province of Phongsali, the resistance base of the Lao people was expandednearly 1 thousand km 2 .- At the beginning of February, 1954, our troops attacked the enemy in the North Central Highlands, eliminated from the battle circlePage 74742000 enemy, liberated the whole province of Kon Tum, a large area with 200,000 people; besiege, threatenPleiku.- In response to our attack, Nava sent reinforcements to Dien Bien Phu,Xeno, Luang Phabang, Muong Sai and Pleiku. The Nava plan initially failed. Victoryin the winter - spring of 1953 - 1954 has prepared materially and spiritually for the Vietnamese army and peopleThe South launched a decisive attack on Dien Bien Phu.2. The historic Dien Bien Phu campaign in 1954- Objective: to destroy enemy forces, liberate the Northwest region, create conditions for Laos to liberateNorthern Laos.- Developments :The Dien Bien Phu campaign was divided into three phases:+ Phase 1 (from March 13 to 17, 1954): Our troops attacked and destroyed the Him Lam andthe entire North division. As a result, we eliminated 2000 enemies from the battle.+ Phase 2 (from April 30 to April 26, 1954): Our troops simultaneously attacked the fortress east of the area.The Muong Thanh center like E1, D1, C1, C2, A1... We occupied most of the enemy's strong points...After this wave, the US urgently provided aid to France and threatened to drop an atomic bomb at Dien Bien Phu. Ipromptly overcome difficulties in supply and raise the determination to win.+ Phase 3 (from May 1 to May 7, 1954): our troops simultaneously attacked the Central subdivision.Muong Thanh and the Southern subdivision, respectively, destroyed the remaining resistance bases of the enemy. Afternoon 7 -5, our troops attacked the enemy headquarters. At 5:30 p.m. on May 7, 1954, General De Castri and allThe Joint Chiefs of Staff were arrested. The enemy base group at Dien Bien Phu was annihilated.3. Results and meaninga. Result- The winter-spring strategic offensive 1953 - 1954 and the historic Dien Bien campaignThe government won. Our army and people eliminated 128 200 enemies from the battle, and collected 19,000 gunseliminated, destroyed 162 mother and father, 81 cannons, liberated large areas throughout the country.- Particularly on the Dien Bien Phu front, we eliminated 16,200 enemies from the battle, includinga major general, shot down and destroyed 62 aircraft of all kinds, collected all weapons and combat vehiclespainting.b. Meaning : completely smash the Nava plan, deal a decisive blow to the will to invadeof the French colonialists, turning the tide of the war, creating favorable conditions for the struggleOur diplomacy won.III. GENERAL AGREEMENT OF 1954 ON INDOCHINA1. Geneva Conference- In January 1954, the meeting of foreign ministers of four countries: the Soviet Union, the United States of America, Great Britain, and France was held in Berlin.agreed to convene an international conference in Geneva (Switzerland) to deal with theKorea and restore peace in Indochina.- On May 8, 1954, the Geneva Conference began to discuss the issue of restoring peace inDong Duong.- On July 21, 1954, the Geneva Agreement was signed.2. Geneva AgreementPage 7575a. content- The participating countries committed to respect the fundamental national rights of independence, sovereignty,the rights, unity and territorial integrity of the three countries Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia; commitmentnon-interference in the internal affairs of the three countries.- The warring parties shall implement a cease-fire and restore peace throughout Indochina.- The warring parties carried out the movement and gathering of troops in two regions: In Vietnam,The Vietnamese People's Army and the French Expeditionary Army gathered in the North and South regionsRoute 17 (along the Ben Hai River - Quang Tri) as a temporary military demarcation along with the military zonemilitary on both sides of the demarcation line. In Laos, the resistance forces gathered in two provinces of Sam Nua andPhongxa. In Cambodia, the resistance forces were stationed on the spot.- The Agreement prohibits the entry of foreign troops, military personnel and weapons into the countriesDong Duong. Foreign countries are not allowed to set up military bases in Indochina. Eastern countriesDuong cannot participate in any military bloc and does not allow other countries to use its territorytheir territory to wage war or to serve the purpose of aggression.- Vietnam moves towards reunification with free general elections throughout the country, which will be heldheld in July 1956 under the control and supervision of an International Commission.- The responsibility for the implementation of the Agreement rests with the signatories of the Geneva Agreements andtheir successors.b. Meaning- The US failed to carry out the conspiracy to prolong, expand and internationalize the war in the EastDuong. France must end the war and withdraw its troops from the North and our whole country.- Is an international legal document that recognizes the basic national rights of the people of different countriesIndochina and was committed to respect by the major powers and countries attending the Conference.- The landmark marking the successful end of the resistance war against the French colonialists from 1945 to 1954,The North was completely liberated.IV. HISTORICAL MEANING, SUCCESSFUL CAUSES OF THE RESISTANCEANTI FRENCH COLOLIZATION1. Historical significance- End the war of aggression, and at the same time end the colonial rule ofFrance for nearly a century in our country.- The North of our country was liberated, transitioned to the socialist revolution,create the basis for our people to completely liberate the South and reunify the Fatherland.- Deal a heavy blow to the imperialism's ambitions of invasion and enslavement plotsSecond World War. Contribute to the disintegration of their colonial system.- Strongly promote national liberation movements in Asia, Africa and Latin America.2. The reason for winning- The wise leadership of the Party, headed by President Ho Chi Minh, with the main linepolitical, military and correct and creative resistance lines.- All the people, our whole army is united in one heart, brave in battle, industrious in laborproduction motion.- There is a people-democratic government system in the whole country, there is a unified national frontPage 7676consolidated and expanded, the armed forces of the three armies were soon built up and nostop growing, have a large and solid rear in all aspects.- The fighting alliance of the peoples of the three Indochinese countries against a common enemy. Theconsensus, support and assistance of China, the Soviet Union and other people's democracies,of the French people and progressive mankind.LESSON 21. BUILDING SOCIALISM IN THE NORTH, StrugglingAGAINST US imperialism and the SOUTH SAIGON GOVERNMENT (1954 - 1965)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. SITUATION AND REVOLUTIONAL TASKS OF OUR COUNTRY AFTER GENERAL AGREEMENT1954 ABOUT East Asia- The war ended, peace was restored in the North.- Immediately after the Geneva Agreement, the US deceived the French and brought Ngo Dinh Diem to powerin the South, carrying out a plot to divide our country, turn the South into a new colony andmilitary bases in Indochina and Southeast Asia.- Our country was temporarily divided into two regions, the cause of the national democratic revolutionpeople across the country have not yet completed; Our people just had to heal the wounds of wareconomic recovery in the North, leading the North to socialism, while continuing the revolutionthe people's national democratic network in the South, realizing peace and reunification of the country.II. THE NORTH COMPLETED LAND REFORM, ECONOMIC RESTORE, IMPROVEMENTCREATE PRODUCTION RELATIONSHIP (1954 - 1960)1. Complete land reform, restore economy, heal war wounds hàn(1954 - 1957)a. Completing land reform- Purpose: to solve the land problem, remove the remnants of feudalism, and divide the fieldsland for the poor, giving them economic and political ownership in the countryside.- For more than two years (1954 - 1956), the North conducted the 6th phase of land rent reduction and the next 4 phases of land rent reductionland in the lowland and midland provinces. The face of the northern countryside has many changes.The union of workers and peasants was consolidated.- Limitations: rampant, violent, fighting even resistance landlords, people whobelonging to the upper class with meritorious services to the revolution, mistakenly attributed a number of peasants, cadres, and party members tolandlord.b. Economic recovery, healing war wounds (Read more)2. Improvement of production relations, initial socio-economic development (1958 - 1960) (Readmore)III. SOUTH SOUTH FRAME AGAINST US REGION - DIEM, KEEP AND DEVELOPPROMOTION OF REVOLUTIONARY FORGETTING TO THE "CO-START" (1954 - 1960)Page 78781. Struggle against the US-Diem regime, preserve and develop revolutionary forces(1954 - 1959) (Read more)2. The movement “Dong Khoi” (1959 - 1960)a. Historical background- During the years 1957 - 1959, the southern revolution encountered many difficulties and losses.- May 1957, Ngo Dinh Diem promulgated a law outlawing the communists.With Law 10 - 59 (proposed in May 1959), the guillotine had dragged across the South, killing tens of thousands of staffministries and party members; Tens of thousands of patriotic compatriots were imprisoned.- In January 1959, the 15th Conference of the Party Central Committee decided toPeople in the South used revolutionary violence to overthrow the US - Diem government. ConferenceEmphasis: Apart from using revolutionary violence, the people of the South have no childrenany other way. The basic direction of the revolution in the South is the uprising to gain powerrights in the hands of the people by the main way of political struggle, combined with armed strugglepage to overthrow the domination of the US - Diem.b. Developments- The uprising movement started from sporadic places in each locality like the uprising in Vinh Thanh - BinhDinh, in Bac Ai - Ninh Thuan (February 1959), in Tra Bong - Quang Ngai (August 1959), spread throughout the region.The southern citadel was the revolutionary climax, typically the "Dong Khoi" movement in Ben Tre.- On January 17, 1960, the "Dong Khoi" movement broke out in three communes of Dinh Thu, Phuoc Hiep, and Binh Dinh.Khanh belongs to Mo Cay district (Ben Tre), then quickly spread to the whole Mo Cay district and other provincesGiong Trom, Thanh Phu, Ba Tri, Chau Thanh, Binh Dai districts.- The masses rebelled to dissolve the enemy's government, establish a self-governing People's Committee,set up armed forces, confiscated land from landowners, and distributed them to the poor peasants.c. Result- The Dong Khoi movement spread to the Southern provinces, the Central Highlands and some places in the Central regionCentral. By the end of 1960, we had owned 600/1298 communes in the South, 904/3829 villages inCentral Coastal Plain, 3200/5721 villages in the Central Highlands.- The National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam was born (December 20, 1960) by LawyerNguyen Huu Tho as Chairman. The Front advocates the unity of the entire people and the struggle against imperialismthe invasion of the United States and Ngo Dinh Diem's ​​government, establishing a revolutionary government in the form ofself-governing People's Committees.d. Meaning- The Co-initiation movement dealt a heavy blow to the new American colonial policyshook the root of our government and sent Ngo Dinh Diem.- Marking the development of the southern revolution from the position of preserving the forcesto the offensive position.IV. THE NORTHERN CONSTRUCTION OF THE OWNER'S TECHNICAL FACILITIESSOCIALITY (1961 - 1965)1. The Third National Party Congress (September 1960)- Time: from the 5th to the 10th of September, 1960 in Hanoi.- Content :Page 7979The Congress set out the revolutionary tasks of the whole country and the revolutionary tasks of each region; specify the tasteposition, role and relationship between the two regions' revolutions.+ The socialist revolution in the North has the most decisive role for developmentof the national revolution. The people's democratic national revolution in the South plays a decisive roledirectly determined for the liberation of the South. The two-regional revolution has a secret relationshipclosely linked and interact with each other in order to complete the people's democratic national revolutionthroughout the country, to realize the peaceful reunification of the country.+ The Congress affirmed to bring the North forward quickly, strongly and firmly towards communismsociety.+ The Congress approved the political report, the report on amendments to the Party's Charter and approved the planthe first five-year State Plan (1961-1965).2. The North implemented the 5-year State plan (1961 - 1965)- Tasks: industrial and agricultural development, socialist reform, consolidation ofstate-owned economic sector, improving the people's material and cultural life, consolidating the nation'sprevention and enhancement of social order and security.- The North has achieved many important achievements in the fields of industry and agriculture,Trade, transport, culture, education, health...- The North also performed the duty to support the southern front line.- Achievements in the implementation of the 5-year plan (1961 -1965) and saidin 10 years (1954 - 1964) changed the face of society in the North.V. THE SOUTH BATTERS AGAINST THE "SPECIAL WAR"OF THE US Empire (1961 - 1965)1. The US imperialist "Special War" strategy in the South- Circumstances: After the "Dong Khoi" movement, the people of the South rebelled and fought togetherpolitics with armed struggle against the US and the Saigon government. People's Liberation Movementethnic groups rose sharply, directly threatening the colonial system of imperialism.- To deal with the above situation, President of the United States - Ennodi has proposed a global strategy“Flexible response” and implementation of the “Special War” strategy in South Vietnam.- Special war is a new form of colonial aggression, wagedby our army, under the command of the American advisory system, relying on weapons and meansAmerica's war against the revolutionary forces and our people. Basic Conspiracyof the United States in the Special War strategy of "using the Vietnamese to fight the Vietnamese".- The US proposed the plan "Stalà - Ta Lo" with the main content of pacifying the South in thewithin 18 months. The US increased military aid to Diem, rapidly increasing Saigon's army forceIn Saigon, people gathered to establish "strategic hamlets", using new tactics "helicopter transport","set far away".- "Strategic Hamlet" (later called "Newborn Hamlet") was considered by the US and Saigon government as"backbone" of "Special War" and elevated to "national policy". They consider the establishment"strategic hamlet" as an all-out war to push the revolutionary forces out of thehamlets and villages, separating the people from the revolution to take control of the people, implementing the program of "pacification" of the regionMale.- Supported by the US to fight and command by the advisory system, the Saigon army was consecutivePage 8080launch sweeping operations to destroy the revolutionary forces, carry outactivities to sabotage the North, blockade the border and sea areas to prevent support from the rearthe North for the Southern battlefield.2. The South fought against America's "Special War" strategy- To meet the requirements of the Southern revolution, following the birth of the People's FrontNational Liberation Front of the South (December 1960), the Central Department of the South was established (January 1, 1961) andArmed forces unified into the Liberation Army of the South (February 1961).- Under the banner of unity and national salvation of the National Liberation Front led by the Party,The South Vietnamese army and people stepped up their struggle against the US and the Saigon government, combined with the strugglepolitical with armed struggle, insurrection with offensive on all three strategic regions (forest, mountain,rural areas, plains, urban areas) to attack the enemy with all the political, military, and peaceful forces.® Period 1961 - 1963 :- During the years 1961 - 1962, the liberation army repelled many attacks, andwith the attack to destroy many enemy outposts.- The struggle against and to destroy the "strategic hamlet" took place fiercely and fiercely between us and the enemy,Destroying "strategic hamlets" goes hand in hand with building battle villages. By the end of 1962, the revolution controlledcontrol over half of the total number of hamlets with nearly 70% farmers.- On the military front, we won a resounding victory in the battle of Ap Bac (January 2, 1962).The Ap Bac victory marked the maturity of the revolutionary armed forces of the South.defeated the enemy's tactics of "helicopter transport", "armored vehicle", and broke the trust of the enemySaigon army equipped with modern American weapons. This victory also proves the armySoutherners are completely capable of defeating the "Special War" of the US and the governmentSaigon. After the battle of Ap Bac, the movement "Emulating Ap Bac to kill the enemy and make a merit" arose throughout the regionMale.- Political struggle movements of all classes of people in urban areas, even in urban areasIn big cities like Saigon, Hue, and Da Nang, there have been strong development steps, notably the competitionpaintings of the "long-haired army" of mothers and sisters; of Buddhists against the herdreligious oppression and discrimination by the Diem government.On November 1, 1963, the US took advantage of the generals in the Saigon army to make a coupIt was to kill the Diem - Nhu brothers, and send me wrong to come to power. The coup madeSaigon government is in constant crisis.® Period 1964 - 1965 :- After becoming President, Johnson outlined the plan Johnson - Mark Namara aimed atincreasing military aid, stabilizing the Saigon government, pacifying the South with focusfor 2 years (1964 - 1965).- But by the end of 1964, the enemy could only control 3,300 hamlets (about 1/5 of the planned number of hamlets).ant), by June 1965, it dropped to the lowest level, only controlling 2,200 hamlets. “War Hamlet”strategy" - the backbone of "Special War" was basically bankrupt. Liberation Day Zoneexpanded, becoming the direct rear of the revolution.- At the end of 1964, the Southeastern army and people launched a campaign to attack Winter - Spring 1964- 1965 with the opening battle against Binh Gia hamlet. For more than 1 month, the liberation army was eliminated from theround of combat more than 1700 enemies (including 60 American advisers), confiscated and destroyed many vehiclesPage 8181their war facilities.- Inheriting victory after the Binh Gia victory, the liberation army and the people of the South stepped upoffensive Spring - Summer 1965 and won many victories in the campaigns of An Lao (Binh Dinh),Ba Gia (Quang Ngai), Dong Xoai (Bien Hoa). Large enemy units are destroyed one by one, orheavy damage. Saigon Army, the core force of "Special War" is no longer enoughto cope with the great attacks of the liberation army and face the danger of disintegration.LESSON 22. TWO COUNTRIES DIRECTLY FIGHT AGAINST THE US EmpireAGGRESSION. THE NORTH WHILE WATCHING AND PRODUCED (1965 - 1973)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. FIGHT AGAINST THE "LOCAL WAR" OF THE INCOMEUSA IN THE SOUTH (1965 - 1968)1. The strategy of "local war" of the US imperialists in the South- After the failure of the "Special War" strategy, the US stepped up the war to invade the regionSouth, switch to the strategy of "Local War" and expand the "War of Destruction" in the regionNorth.- Local war is a new type of colonial invasion war, waged byAmerican military forces, American allies and Saigon troops.- Based on military advantages, having just entered the South, the US immediately launched a "search and destroy" operation.into the base of the Liberation Army at Van Tuong (Quang Ngai). Followed by two counterattacksdry season strategy 1965 - 1966 and 1966 - 1967 with a series of "search and destroy" and"pacify".2. Fight against America's "Local War" strategy- On the military front: consecutively won resounding victories, starting with the battle ofThanh Mountain, followed by Van Tuong. Van Tuong was considered as "Ap Bac" for American and Vietnamese troopsallies, opening the climax "Find America and fight, hunt and destroy" throughout the South. NextThose were the victories that smashed two strategic counter-attacks in the dry season (winter-spring 1965 - 1966).and winter-spring 1966 - 1967). The climax was the 1968 General Offensive and Uprising.- In most rural areas, the masses are supported by the armed forcesstood up to fight against the enemy's policy of clamping down, breaking "strategic hamlets".- In cities, workers, other working people, students, students, Buddhists, soldiersSaigon ... fought for the US to withdraw back to the country, demanding freedom and democracy. The liberated area has been expandedThe credibility of the National Front for the Liberation of the South has been enhanced in the international arena.- By the end of 1967, the Liberation Front had standing agencies in most of the communessocialist and in some third world countries. The program of the front was reached by 41 countries,12 international organizations, 5 regional organizations voiced their support.3. The Tet Offensive and Uprising (1968)Page 8484Meaning: to shake the will of the American army to invade, forcing the US to declare "de-Americanization"the Vietnam War (ie admitting the defeat of the "Local War"), unconditionally endingevent of war destroying the North, agreed to negotiate in Paris to discuss ending the war.The General Offensive and uprising opened the turning point of the resistance war.II. THE NORTH HAS WATCHED THE FIRST WAR OF VALUATIONTHE MOST OF THE US, SUPPLYING AND BEING RESPONSIBILITY (1965 -1968)1. The US waged an air and naval war to destroy the North- On February 7, 1965, the US let mom and dad bomb Dong Hoi town, Con Co island...officially caused the war by air and navy to destroy the North.- The United States is conspiring to sabotage its economic and defense potentials and disrupt the construction of socialismin the north ; prevent external aid from entering the North and from the North into the regionMale ; threaten the spirit and shake the anti-American will of our people in the two regions of the country.2. The North fought against the war of destruction, production and duty at the same timebehind-the-scenes- Doing rear-end duties: calculating the combined efforts of people and resources from the North to the regionThe South in 4 years has increased 10 times compared to the previous period (30,000 cadres, soldiers, tens of tons).weapons…).III. FIGHT AGAINST THE STRATEGY “VIETNAMIZATION OF THE WAR” AND"Easternization of War" of the American Empire (1969 - 1973)1. America's strategy of "Vietnamization of war" and "Indochinization of war"- The strategy of "Vietnamization of the war" was conducted by the Saigon army as the masterweak, coordinated American air and firepower, and still commanded by the United States through an advisory system.American and allied troops gradually withdrew, and at the same time increased the number of Saigon troops in order to take advantage ofusing Vietnamese bones and blood. It is the continuation of the conspiracy "Using Vietnamese people to beat peopleVietnam".- The Saigon army was also used by the US as a shock force in Indochina during the warextended operations to invade Cambodia (1970), intensifying the war in Laos(1971), with the plot "Using Indochinese people to beat Indochinese people".2. Fight against the "Vietnamization of the war" and "Indochinization" strategiesAmerica's war"- The political victory that opened the period against "Vietnamization of the war" was the birth ofProvisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam on June 6, 1969. Having just been born,The provisional revolutionary government has been recognized by 23 countries, of which 21 have established relationsdiplomatic.- President Ho Chi Minh passed away on September 2, 1969. Executing his will, on this occasionOur people in the two regions stepped up the resistance war against America to save the country.- In the two years 1970 - 1971, our people together with the people of Cambodia and Laoswon strategic victories on the military and political fronts.+ In two days, April 24 and 25, 1970, the Summit of the three Indochinese countries was helddemonstrating the determination of the people of the three countries to unite to fight against the US.+ From April 30 to June 30, 1970, the Vietnamese army had the coordination of the army and peoplePage 8585Cambodia has smashed the invasion of Cambodia by 100,000 American and military troopsSaigon.+ From February 12 to March 23, 1971, the Vietnamese army had the coordination of the army and peopleLaos has smashed the operation named "Lam Son - 719" to occupy the 9th road - Southern Laos, keep themaintain the Indochinese revolutionary strategic corridor.+ Victory on the military front has supported and promoted the political struggle movement in Vietnamurban areas, fighting "pacification", destroying "strategic hamlets" in the countryside.3. The 1972 Strategic Offensive- From March 30, 1972, we launched a strategic offensive, attacked Quang Tri, took QuangTri as the main direction of attack, then spread widely throughout the southern battlefield, lasting for a long timein 1972.- By the end of June, 1972, our troops broke through the enemy's three strongest lines:Quang Tri, Ta Nguyen, Southeast, removed from the battle more than 200,000 enemies, liberatedlarge and densely populated areas.- The 1972 strategic offensive dealt a heavy blow to the "Vietnam" strategywar", forcing the US to declare "Americanization" back to war of aggression (ie admittingfailure of "Vietnamization of the war").IV. THE NORTH RECOVERY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - SOCIAL, FIGHTAGAINST THE SECOND US'S WAR OF VALUATION (1969 - 1973)1. The North recovers and develops socio-economics (Read more)2. The North fought against the war of destruction while producing and doing servicebehind-the-scenesOn April 16, 1972, Nixon officially declared a zero wararmy and navy sabotage the North (second time).- The second war of sabotage far surpassed the first war of destructionin terms of scale, intensity of attack, use of the most modern aircraft... Nixon's intention was toto save the strategy of "Vietnamization of the war", creating strength in negotiations in Paris.- In fierce war conditions, construction activities in the North stilluninterrupted, smooth transportation, other activities, such as officeculture, education, and health care are maintained and developed.- On December 14, 1972, Nixon approved the plan to launch a raid by B52 aircraftentered Hanoi and Hai Phong from the evening of the 18th to the end of December 29, 1972 in order to wina decisive military victory, forcing us to sign an agreement in favor of the United States.- Our army and people in the North made the battle "Dien Bien Phu in the air". Shoot down 81 cheeksthree (in which 34 B52 parents, 5 F111 parents), captured 43 American pilots. In general, inthe whole second sabotage war (from April 6, 1972 to January 15, 1973), the North shot down735 Americans (including 61 B52 and 10 F111), sank 125 warships, typeout of combat with hundreds of pilots (USA)."Dien Bien Phu in the air" was our decisive victory, forcing the US to declare itceased all activities against the North (January 15, 1973) and signed the Paris Agreement on terminationwar, restore peace in Vietnam (January 27, 1973).- The North has concentrated its ability on forces and means to overcome it in timePage 86eighty sixconsequences of fierce battles, ensuring reinforcements at the request of the front lines of the regionIn the South, there were both Laos and Cambodia battlefields.V. THE PARI AGREEMENT OF 1973 ON ENDING THE WAR, RECOVERING PEACEPEACE IN VIETNAM1. Contents- China and other countries commit to respect independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrityterritory of Vietnam.- The two sides ceased fire in the South at 24 o'clock on January 27, 1973 and the United States committed to itcease all military operations against North Vietnam.- The United States withdrew all its troops and allied troops, abolishing military basescommitted not to continue military involvement or to interfere in the internal affairs of the SouthVietnam.- The people of South Vietnam determine their own political future through thefree elections, without foreign interference.- The parties acknowledge the fact that South Vietnam has two governments, two armies, twozone of control and three political forces (revolutionary forces, neutral peace forces andforces of the Saigon regime).- Both sides return prisoners and civilians captured.- The United States is committed to contributing to the healing of war wounds in Vietnam and the EastDuong, establish normal and mutually beneficial relations with Vietnam.2. Meaning- The Paris Agreement on Vietnam is a victory of the combination of military, political,diplomacy, is the result of the indomitable and indomitable struggle of our army and people in the two landscountry.- Opening a new turning point of the resistance war against the US, saving the country.- With the Paris Agreement, the US must recognize the basic national rights of our people, withdraw them alltroops back home.- It is an important historical victory, creating a favorable opportunity for our people to move forwardcompletely liberated the South.LESSON 23. ECONOMIC RESTORE AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE NORTH,TOTALLY liberate the South (1973 - 1975)A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. THE NORTHERN RESULT AND SOCIAL-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, STRATEGY SUPPORTFOR SOUTH (Read more)1. Socio-economic recovery and development2. Aid for the SouthII. SOUTH SOUTH FRAME FIGHT AGAINST the enemy “BINH BINH - ENGLISH” CREATING STRATEGYAND POWER, GOING TO COMPLETELY liberated- On March 29, 1973, the last group of American soldiers withdrew from our country. But the US still kept more than 2Ten thousand military advisors, established the Military Command, continued to provide military and economic aid to the governmentSaigon authority.- The Saigon government blatantly sabotaged the Paris Agreement, conducting a campaign to "spill".flooded the territory", continuously launched operations "pacification - encroachment" of the liberated area.- In the first months after signing the Agreement, due to not fully assessing the sabotage plotof the enemy, placing too much emphasis on peace and national harmony ... so in a number of important areas,We lost our land and lost our people.- In July 1973, the Party Central Committee held its 21st conferenceemphasizing that in any situation it is necessary to continue on the path of violent revolution, yesmastering the strategy of victory, resolutely fighting on all three fronts, military, political,diplomatic.- Since the end of 1973, our army and people in the South have resolutely fought back against the enemy and defended the regionliberated, while actively launching attacks on the enemy, expanding the liberated area.Page 8989- At the end of 1974 and the beginning of 1975, we opened the winter-spring military operation in the direction ofIn the South, the focus is on the Mekong River Delta and the Southeast. Our army wonresounded in the 14th Street campaign - Phuoc Long.- Coordinating with military struggle, our people in the South step up political struggle,diplomatic.- In the liberated areas, our people made every effort to restore and boost production and increase resourcesstrategic reserve, for the fight to completely liberate the South.III. COMPLETELY liberated the South, won the whole landCOUNTRY1. Policy and plan to liberate the South- At the end of 1974 and the beginning of 1975, the Politburo of the Party Central Committee set out a plan for liberationcompletely in the South in 1975 and 1976.- However, the Politburo emphasized "all year 1975 is an opportunity" and indicated "if the time comes".At the beginning or end of 1975, the South was immediately liberated”.2. General Offensive and Uprising Spring 1975a. Highland Campaign (from March 4 to March 24)- On March 4, our troops attacked the diversionary forces at Pleiku and Kon Tum.- On March 10, winning the key battle against Buon Ma Thuot.- On March 24, 1975, the vast Central Highlands with 600,000 people was completely liberated.- The successful Central Highlands campaign turned the resistance war against America to save the countryThe final stage: From the strategic offensive in the Central Highlands, it developed into a general offensivethroughout the southern battlefield.b. Hue - Da Nang campaign (from March 21 to March 29)- As soon as the Ta Nguyen campaign was going on, the Politburo made a timely decision to solve itliberate Saigon and the whole South, first carry out the campaign to liberate Hue - Da Nang.- On March 21, our troops attacked the enemy base, surrounded and blocked the escape routes of the enemythem. At 10:30 on March 25, our troops entered the ancient capital of Hue, and the next day (March 26) we solved itto launch Hue city and the whole province of Thua Thien.- At the same time as the liberation of Hue, our troops entered and liberated Tam Ky town, Quang Ngai,Chu Lai ... created another direction to threaten Da Nang from the south.- Da Nang fell into isolation. On the morning of March 29, our troops from the west, north, and south went straight incity, by 3 pm is to occupy the whole of Da Nang.- From the end of March to the end of April, the people of the remaining provinces in the central and southern coastal regionsCentral Highlands and some provinces in the South, with the support of the local armed forces and the armythe main force, rebelled against the enemy to gain control.c. Ho Chi Minh Campaign (April 26 to April 30)- After the victories in the Central Highlands and Hue - Da Nang, the Politburo of the Central Committee of our Party received the“The strategic opportunity has come, we have the conditions to soon complete the determination to liberate the regionMale" ; then came to the decision "must gather forces, technical weapons and materials as quickly as possible."substances liberated the South before the rainy season (before May 1975)". Operation to liberate SaigonPage 9090Saigon was decided by the Politburo to bear the name Ho Chi Minh campaign (April 14, 1975).- Before starting the campaign to liberate Saigon, our troops attacked Xuan Loc and PhanRang - the key defensive bases of the enemy to defend Saigon from the east.- At 5:00 p.m. on April 26, our troops were ordered to open fire to start the campaign, 5 wings of the army passedThe enemy's outer line of defense entered the center of Saigon, capturing the head officestheir brains.- 10:45 am on April 30, our tanks entered the Independence Palace, 11:30 amOn the same day, the revolutionary flag was raised three times on the Independence Palace, marking the victory of the Warhistorical Ho Chi Minh translation.- On May 2nd, Chau Doc was the last province to be liberated.IV. HISTORICAL MEANING, SUCCESSFUL CAUSES OF THE RESISTANCEANTI ANTI-MY WATER SAVINGS1. Historical significance- The war of resistance against America to save the country has ended 21 years of fighting against the USand 30 years of national liberation and defense of the Fatherland since the August Revolution in 1945; dotend the domination of imperialism and feudalism in our country. On that basis, completeinto a people-democratic national revolution in the whole country, reunifying the country.- The victory of the resistance war against America to save the country opened a new era of historynation - the era of the country's independence, unity, and socialism.- The victory of our people and the defeat of the US imperialists have had a strong impact on the situation in the countryAmerica and the world, especially for the national liberation movement.- That victory "will forever be recorded in our nation's history as one of the most brilliant pagesmost brilliant, a shining symbol of the triumph of revolutionary heroism and wisdomhuman intelligence and entered world history as a great feat of the twentieth century, an eventof great international importance and profoundly contemporary”.2. The reason for winning- The correct leadership of the Party with its independent political and military lineowner, correct, creative.- Our people uphold the tradition of ardent patriotism, resolutely fighting...The strong socialist North meets the growing demand for aid for theSouth.- The solidarity and fighting alliance of the three Indochinese countries... The support and assistance ofSoviet Union, China...LESSON 24. VIETNAM IN THE FIRST YEAR AFTER WINNINGOF THE ANTI-AMERICAN RESPONSIBILITIES, SAVE THE COUNTRY IN 1975A. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. SITUATION OF THE NORTH - SOUTH SOUTH AFTER 19751. The NorthPage 9292- Advantages: great and comprehensive achievements have been achieved, facilities have been builtmaterial - the original technique of socialism.- difficulty : the war of sabotage by the US air and navy destroyedmost of the achievements built by the people in the North, making the process progress to productiongrowth was delayed to several five-year plans.2. The South- Advantages: completely liberated, the new American colonial regime and the main apparatusSaigon's central authority collapsed.- Difficulty: the very heavy consequences of war. The Southern economy is still basicallyhas the characteristics of a backward agricultural economy, small and scattered production, lost developmentbalance, heavily dependent on external aid.II. WAR EFFECTS, RESTORE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTECONOMIC - SOCIAL IN TWO COUNTRIES (Read more)III. FINISHING THE COUNTRY UNDERSTANDING OF THE STATE (1975 - 1976)- After the great victory in the spring of 1975, the Vietnamese Fatherland was unified in terms of territory.However, each region has a different form of state organization.- From the 15th to the 21st of November, 1975, the political consultation conference to unify the countryheld in Saigon. The meeting fully agreed on the issues of guidelines and measures tounify the country in terms of the State.- On April 25, 1976, General Elections to elect the General Assembly were held in the whole countrycountry.- From June 24 to July 3, 1976, the 6th National Assembly held its first session in Hanoi.- The National Assembly ratifies the domestic and foreign policy of the unified VietnamNaming the country as the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (from July 2, 1976), the decision on Nationalcoat of arms, the national flag is a red flag with a yellow star, the national anthem is the song "Tien quan ca", the capital is Hanoi, and the city of SaigonSaigon changed its name to Ho Chi Minh City.- With the results of the first session of the 6th National Assembly, the work of unifying the country in terms ofState completed.- Completing the unification of the country in terms of the State has created political conditionsbasis to promote the comprehensive strength of the country, favorable conditions for the whole country to go upsocialism, great possibilities to defend the Fatherland and expand relations with other countriesIn the world.- The newly established Socialist Republic of Vietnam (July 2, 1976) has 94 countriesofficially recognized and established diplomatic relations (by the end of 1980 there were 106 countries).LESSON 25: VIETNAM BUILDING ASSEMBLYAND FIGHT FOR PROTECTION OF THE COUNTRY (1976-1986)(Reduce the full load)LESSON 26. THE COUNTRY ON THE ROAD OF INNOVATION TO SOCIALismA. BASIC KNOWLEDGEI. The Party's renewal line1. New historical circumstances* In the country:- 10 years after reunification, we have achieved certain achievements in our careerbuild and defend China.- The country fell into socio-economic crisis due to "serious and long-lasting mistakes inmajor policy undertakings, mistakes in strategic direction and implementation organization".*World: - The world situation and relations between countries have changed dramatically.- The Soviet Union and the socialist countries of Eastern Europe are in a serious and comprehensive crisis.→It is necessary to innovate to bring the country out of the crisis and accelerate the revolutionSocialism.2. The Party's renewal line*Origin: The renovation line was proposed from the 6th Party Congress (December 1986), supplemented anddevelopment adjustment in the congresses VII (6/1991) and VIII (6/1996), IX (4/2001).* Concept of Innovation:- It is not about changing the goal of socialism, but making it effectivewith correct conceptions of socialism with appropriate forms and measures.- Comprehensive and synchronous innovation in which the focus is on economic innovation.* Contents of the Innovation Path:- Economic innovation: Eliminate the centralized economic management mechanism, bureaucratic subsidies; Figureto become a market mechanism, to develop a multi-component commodity economy under the socialist orientation.* Political innovation: Building a socialist rule of law state of the people, by the people and for the people;building a socialist democracy; implement the policy of great national unity and the policy offoreign peace, friendship and cooperation.II. The process of implementing the renovation policy (1986 - 2000)1. Implementation of the 5-year plan from 1986 to 1990a. The 6th Congress (December 1986) opened the workrenew.- Assess the situation of the country, review the leadership of the Party and the management role of the Statecountry…- Affirm the continuation of the socialist revolutionary path, and set forth a path for national renewal.- Propose a 5-year state plan (1986-1990) with the content: Concentrating human and physical energyachievement of the goals and tasks of the three major economic programs are "food".products, consumer goods and exports”.b. Initial results of the renovation work*Achievement:Page 9595- Economic. Achieve the goals of 3 major economic programs:+ Food: meet domestic demand, have reserves and export (products)Food exports in 1988 reached 19.5 million tons, 1989 reached 21.4 million tons).+ Consumer goods: Abundant and diversified, with improvements in design and quality; favorable trafficprofit. The share of state subsidies decreased.+ Exports (foreign economic relations) develop in size and form. From 1986 to 1990,exports increased 3 times. Imports dropped significantly.=> Control the inflation momentum (reduce the price increase index from 20% (1986) → 4.4% (1990)), stepbeginning to form a multi-sector commodity economy.- Politics: The state apparatus at all levels was rearranged and there were some innovations according to themore democratic, the power of the elected bodies is enhanced.*Limit:- The economy is still unbalanced, inflation is still high...- Labor underemployment, low salary; people's living standards decrease.- Cultural cause has continued to degrade; Are there many negative phenomena?be remedied.2. Implementation of the 5-year plan 1991 – 1995(Instruct students to read more - Reduce load)3. Implementation of the 5-year plan 1996 – 2000(Instruct students to read more - Reduce load).LESSON 27: SUMMARY OF HISTORY OF VIETNAM FROM 1919 TO 2000